New York Residents Are Fighting a Data Center Backed by a Billionaire Trump Ally | Truthout Skip to content Skip to footer Truthout Logo Truthout Menu Search Search Filter Search Search All Content Articles Audio Posts Video Posts Authors Facebook Facebook Circle Icon Bluesky Bluesky Circle Icon Flipboard Flipboard Circle Icon Instagram Instagram Circle Icon Twitter Twitter Circle Icon RSS RSS Circle Icon Culture & Media Economy & Labor Education & Youth Environment & Health Human Rights Immigration LGBTQ Rights Politics & Elections Prisons & Policing Racial Justice Reproductive Rights War & Peace Series & Podcasts Donald Trump Palestine Censorship Iran Israel Donald Trump Trump’s Venezuela, Boat Strike Campaign Have Cost Nearly $5 Billion So Far Elon Musk Musk and Silicon Valley Aren’t Libertarian. They Want to Fuse With the State. Fossil Fuels The First-Ever Conference to End Fossil Fuels Has to Address Militarism, Too Donald Trump Trump’s Truth Social Posts Upended Iran War Negotiations — Report © 2026 Truthout Marc Rowan, Co-Founder and CEO, Apollo Global Management, speaks at the 28th annual Milken Institute Global Conference at the Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills, California, on May 5, 2025. Patrick T. Fallon /PATRICK T. FALLON / AFP via Getty Images Support justice-driven, accurate and transparent news — make a quick donation to Truthout today! A battle over a data center complex in rural Western New York may seem like a purely local affair. But an analysis of the project’s owner reveals ties that include the Jeffrey Epstein scandal, the government’s crackdown on U.S. campuses, and the imposition of neocolonial rule over Gaza. Over the past year, residents of Genesee County, New York — located between Buffalo and Rochester — have strongly opposed a proposed data center that is being pushed by county officials and backed by Stream Data Centers, a Texas-based developer of hyperscale data centers. Community members say the data center will bring noise, pollution, and higher electric bills, while endangering nearby wetlands and wildlife and threatening the sovereign territory of the Tonawanda Seneca Nation. But opponents of the data center are up against a much bigger force than Stream Data Centers. Community members say the data center will bring noise, pollution, and higher electric bills, while endangering nearby wetlands and wildlife and threatening the sovereign territory of the Tonawanda Seneca Nation. The parent company of Stream is Apollo Global Management, one of the world’s biggest private equity firms. The Wall Street giant has faced controversy over ties to the late convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. Moreover, the CEO and public face of Apollo, mega-billionaire Marc Rowan, is a powerful insider who’s shaped the Trump administration’s pressure campaign against universities and is helping oversee the new “Board of Peace” in Gaza. The entry of a massive Wall Street firm’s portfolio company into a rural and thinly populated area is jarring to local residents in Western New York, who are facing an enormous power structure with arms extending to the heights of government and across the world. “It feels like this insatiably hungry machine that’s just steamrolling whatever’s in its path,” Adrienne Yocina, who lives a few miles from the site of the proposed data center, told Truthout . “But this place is too beautiful to be another victim of that.” STAMP Data Center The proposed data center complex is being backed by the Genesee County Economic Development Center (GCEDC), a public agency that offers tax breaks and other economic incentives to attract private business. STAMP (Science, Technology and Advanced Manufacturing Park) is a mega-industrial site that was proposed and developed by GCEDC. It’s existed for about two decades — with little to show , many argue. Around a year ago , the GCEDC turned to a new hope for STAMP — data centers — and selected Stream Data Centers as a future tenant. “It feels like this insatiably hungry machine that’s just steamrolling whatever’s in its path.” The proposed data center has been mired in controversy. Facing opposition and litigation , Stream withdrew its initial $6.3 billion proposal made in early 2025, only to come back with a bigger, more expensive $11.2 billion proposal , which has now grown to $19.5 billion . Stream says it’s developing the data center “in direct collaboration” with an undisclosed but “prominent” Fortune 50 company. Community members have staunchly opposed the data center, worrying it will bring noise and pollution and drive up electricity costs . The Sierra Club and the Tonawanda Seneca Nation — a sovereign Indigenous Nation in Western New York, whose reservation shares a border with the STAMP site, itself located in the Seneca Nation’s unceded territory — have opposed the project, arguing it could harm nearby wetlands and wildlife. Critics have also raised concerns over conflicts of interest in the environmental review of the data center and lambasted the huge public subsidies the project could receive, reported the Buffalo-based watchdog news outlet Investigative Post . Yocina, who is disabled, has lived in Indian Falls, a hamlet a few miles from STAMP, for 15 years. She’s active with local groups opposing the data center, including the ReThink STAMP campaign . Yocina said her electric bill recently shot up, and she worries the data center will make it worse. “They’re going to jack up my electric bill even more,” she told Truthout . “That’s really motivated a lot of people around here.” She’s also upset about the public money that could subsidize the data center. “They’re asking for $801 million in subsidies,” she said. “That’s our money. The audacity to ask for that much money while I’m struggling to pay my electric bill.” “There’s unity happening here. This is a bipartisan issue. Everybody is against this data center.” Yocina’s mention of $801 million in public subsidies is a reference to the package of tax exemptions the GCEDC is offering to Stream — a number that Stream is now looking to increase to a whopping $1.44 billion. Despite the opposition to the data center, the GCEDC unanimously approved a motion on February 5, 2026, to start reviewing a financial assistance application from Stream. Apollo Global Management Tucked into Stream’s STAMP data center proposal is a short clause that notes the company is “strategically backed by Apollo Global Management-managed funds.” Apollo is one of the world’s top private equity firms, overseeing $908 billion in assets. Apollo CEO Marc Rowan is worth over $7 billion , and he’s spent tens of millions of dollars in recent months and years buying up properties near the Hamptons, the elite enclave of Long Island. “It’s almost impossible for me to even think about having that much money,” said Yocina. “I just feel like $37,000 a year” — the per capita income of Genesee County – “compared to Marc Rowan is an unfair fight.” Like other private equity firms, Apollo has faced criticism over its management of its holdings, such as hospitals and for-profit colleges , and for labor policies among its portfolio companies. And also like other private equity firms, Apollo is aiming to profit off the AI and data center boom. In November 2025, Apollo completed its acquisition of Stream Data Centers. Apollo executives view their new portfolio company as a hands-on and strategic investment. One Apollo statement said that Stream will allow the firm to “ potentially deploy billions of dollars into next-generation digital infrastructure,” while Apollo president Jim Zelter declared that “Stream Data Centers strengthen our presence in digital infrastructure.” Goldman Sachs, who advised Stream on the majority investment from Apollo, emphasized that Apollo will “help Stream execute on a multigigawatt development pipeline” and that Stream will provide Apollo “with an ‘origination engine’ for deploying capital.” Apollo and Jeffrey Epstein Apollo has also fac