Google affiliated company buys 430 acres of land in Kansas City, Missouri - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Google affiliated company buys 430 acres of land in Kansas City, Missouri Project Kestrel takes flight March 20, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say A Google-affiliated company has purchased 430 acres of land near the Kansas City International Airport in Kansas City, Missouri, for a data center campus. The property was already earmarked for "Project Kestrel," a data center campus rumored to be underway for Google. Now, the Kansas City Business Journal reports that the site has been officially acquired by Shenandoah Computing LLC, a Delaware company known to be associated with Google. – Port KC Google has yet to publicly comment on the project. The site is located southwest of Highway 92 and north of Winan Avenue, and was acquired from Hunt Midwest. Current plans for Project Kestrel include the development of five 500,000 sq ft (46,450 sqm) in phased construction. A 44.2-acre section will be delivered to Evergy for the development of an on-site substation. The campus is expected to bring 50 full-time jobs per phase of construction, and will use at least 50 percent of its energy from carbon-neutral sources. No timeline for construction has been provided as yet, but local officials have suggested it could start sometime this year. The project has already been awarded a 35-year exemption of real and personal property taxes, as well as sales taxes for construction material. In November 2025 , Platt County presiding commissioner Scott Fricker spoke out against these tax breaks, arguing that the agreement benefitted one of the world's "largest and richest corporations" at the expense of local residents. Shenandoah Computing is the company behind filings for Project Shale and Project Micah , both of which are in the Kansas City area and confirmed to be Google developments. Construction began on Project Micah in February. The campus is planned for a 500-acre site off the northeast corner of Interstate 435 and 169 Highway in Clay County, and will host five data centers totaling 1.56 million sq ft (144,928 sqm). The site will total 700MW, according to Port KC . The company owns another plot of land in Northland where it is planning a data center campus. October 2023 saw it file (and later gain permission) to develop up to 1.435 million sq ft (133,316 sqm) of data center floor space on 315 acres in the Hunt Midwest Business Center. The land, located northeast of Parvin Road and Arlington Avenue, was purchased in two transactions, one in 2019 and another in December 2021 . More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 18 Dec 2025 Carbon3.ai to deploy Nvidia Blackwell Ultra clusters at data centers in the UK Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 21 Nov 2025 Meta reportedly behind $1bn data center in Howell County, Michigan Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities Tags Google Kansas City Missouri Project Kestrel Shenandoah Computing LLC Comments