Company files for 'Project Turbo' data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Company files for 'Project Turbo' data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia 900,000 sq ft campus planned in Gainesville August 15, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Plans have been filed for a new data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia, by a mystery company. First reported by BizJournal , a company working behind an affiliate known as Project Turbo LLC has filed a Developments of Regional Impact (DRI) application with the Georgia Department of Community Affairs for a new campus in Hall County. Project Turbo development coming to Hall County, GA – Google Maps Though not all details are available, the company has filed to develop 900,000 sq ft (83,613 sqm) of space across “multiple buildings” at 24000 O’Kelly Road in Gainesville, some 55 miles northeast of downtown Atlanta. The company aims to complete the first phase of development by 2027. The site is currently owned by Crossroads Properties B, Inc. It’s unclear which company might be behind the project. A website for Project Turbo has been launched, but only contains a placeholder promising more information soon. The developer has also applied for a conditional use permit for a data center from Hall County, as well as to rezone a 19-acre tract at the property from Planned Industrial Development (PID) to Light Industrial (I-1). The county planning commission is due to meet on September 2. The site plans include constructing a new substation to support the data center. Georgia Power has high-voltage transmission lines and a natural gas transmission facility bordering the southern part of the site. Atlanta, traditionally a Tier 2 market, has quickly become a major hotspot for data center development. DRI applications for more than a dozen campuses, totaling tens of millions of square feet across dozens of buildings, have been filed over the last couple of years. While many are in Atlanta’s traditional data center heartland around Fulton County, applications have been filed for projects across the Peach State. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 04 Feb 2026 1,600-acre data center approved by local authorities in Forsyth, Georgia Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 10 Nov 2025 Deep Green plots US expansion, announces 24MW data center in Michigan Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 24000 O’Kelly Road Gainesville Georgia Hall County Project Turbo Comments