Like 'spaghetti on the wall': LVPC finds Air Products' data center plans lacking | Western Lehigh County | wfmz.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email REGIONAL LIVE CAMERAS: Allentown: Dorney Park | OtterCam | Birdfeeder Bethlehem: Hotel Bethlehem | Main Street Reading: Penn Street Easton: Downtown Poconos: Jim Thorpe | Stroudsburg Close Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email LVPC Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email Print Copy article link Save U. MACUNGIE TWP., Pa. – The Lehigh Valley Planning Commission found a lot of details to be lacking in a proposal to build a massive data center complex on the former Air Products headquarters site. The project was the subject of a draft review that was discussed at a meeting of the commission's comprehensive planning committee on Tuesday afternoon. Air Products wants to construct three buildings on the 194-acre site at 7300 Cetronia Road in Upper Macungie Township. The buildings would total 2.6 million square feet. It would be the Lehigh Valley's first hyperscale data center complex. However, LVPC planners said the proposal leaves too much to the imagination, including the project's potential impact on the power grid, its water needs, and the type of cooling system it would use. "Due to the haste with which the plans were submitted, they did not include essential information that is expected with a hyperscale data center submission," said LVPC Chief Community and Regional Planner Jill Seitz. To better understand the campus' full electrical demand, Air Products "should clarify the total projected electrical load at full build-out and demonstrate coordination with PPL to confirm that the existing grid can reliably accommodate this load without degrading service to current residential or commercial users," planners wrote in their review. The plans also do not identify locations where backup generators will be stored, the review said. In addition, planners noted that, while the buildings would be served by public sewer and water, the Lehigh County Authority has not been approached to determine if capacity is available. "Given the region's current drought conditions, it is critical that the applicant model water use under drought-stage or peak-stress scenarios and demonstrate long-term reliability of the proposed water supply," the draft review reads. Some members of the committee questioned whether the plans were intentionally submitted in a hurry, before Upper Macungie Township could solidify new rules specifically regulating data centers. The township did take action on a new zoning ordinance earlier this month, but by then, the Air Products proposal was already on the table. The application from Air Products had been scheduled for a review by the Upper Macungie Township Zoning Hearing Board later Tuesday. Data Center Interior By Prime Data Centers 'Spaghetti on the wall' "This is clearly a 'spaghetti on the wall' proposal here, just thrown together to beat the rules," said LVPC Commissioner John Gallagher. Several LVPC commissioners and members of the public spoke out against the project — and large-scale data centers in general — during the meeting on Tuesday. "If this is something we want in this region, I hope we think about it long and hard because once we start, you can't come back," said LVPC Chairman Chris Amato, of hyperscale data centers. Ultimately, the committee did vote to send the plans on to the full LVPC, which will meet on Thursday, Dec. 18, at 11 a.m. at 615 Waterfront Drive in Allentown. The meeting can also be accessed virtually. In addition to the Air Products data center proposal, Thursday's agenda includes reviews of a new Easton Area High School athletic complex in Palmer Township, Northampton County, as well as a new athletic field and auxiliary buildings for the Wilson Area School District in Northampton County. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Tags Air Products Data Center Lvpc Upper Macungie Township Hyperscale Data Center Planning Commission Power Grid Impact Water Needs Lehigh Valley Planning Commission Amy Unger WFMZ.com Reporter Author email Follow Amy Unger Lehigh Valley News ‘Next chapter’: Barnes & Noble College Booksellers to no longer manage Moravian Book Shop Lawmakers, Shapiro admin push to end practice of counties taking Social Security money owed to foster kids Sunrise Chef: Weis Markets shares budget-friendly recipes State Treasurer: No legal authorization to use taxpayer dollars to pay for security upgrades to Gov. Shapiro's home French bakery bringing artisanal pastries, other tasty treats to larger Lehigh Valley location 'Hot Rotisserie Chicken Act' could change SNAP Rules ‘Seinfeld’ star Steve Hytner bringing stand-up show to Emmaus Celebration of America's 250th birthday to be held at Lehigh Valley Heritage Museum Some local standouts hope to hear their names called in NFL Draft Therapist Faust Ruggiero discusses PTSD, some ways on how people can get through it Berks Area News 'Charlie’s superhero': How a Berks County father’s final gift saved lives Nick Singleton bobblehead brings fans to FirstEnergy Stadium on draft night Arena football returns to Reading this weekend after decade-long absence Rain or shine: West Reading Craft Pretzel & Beer Fest still on despite forecast Eagle Scout creates accessible fishing pier at Blue Marsh Lake Godiva plant in Exeter Township celebrates 50-year anniversary Furry Friends: Spartan & Buddy Reading Police seek driver in hit-and-run crash that injured 13-year-old Authorities ID victim of fatal car crash on I-78 in northern Berks County Lawmakers, Shapiro admin push to end practice of counties taking Social Security money owed to foster kids Sign Up for Breaking News Get local Breaking News alerts sent directly to your inbox. Success! An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup. Error! There was an error processing your request. Breaking News Alerts Please enter a valid email address. Sign up Manage your lists Available for Roku, Fire TV, AppleTV WFMZ+ STREAMING APP WATCH NOW! Watch all of WFMZ-TV News and Syndicated Programing 24/7 on your Streaming App enabled TV. Learn More Business Headlines The Latest: Trump sending Witkoff and Kushner to Pakistan for talks with Iran's foreign minister Trump sends envoys to Islamabad as Iran rules out direct talks Former Colorado funeral home owner sentenced to 30 years in case that forced industry crackdown EU considers helping with Mideast energy infrastructure to bypass conflict zones The Latest: Trump sending Witkoff and Kushner to Pakistan for talks with Iran foreign minister Trump dispatches Witkoff and Kushner to Pakistan for new talks with Iran's foreign minister Screenwriters overwhelmingly approve a 4-year contract with Hollywood studios The Iran war could drive up costs for petroleum-derived products like clothes and crayons Justice Department drops criminal probe of Fed chair Powell, likely clearing the way for Warsh US still delivering weapons to Ukraine, Zelenskyy says, as Prince Harry visits Kyiv What The Tech? What the Tech? Why AI is a starting point, not the final answer What the Tech? How to protect yourself against 'man in the middle' scam What the Tech? How to protect and preserve your Facebook information, even if you forget the password Entertainment News ‘Gold Rush’: Tony Beets Achieves Season First After More Than 40 Years Mining ‘The White Lotus’: Helena Bonham Carter Exits Season 4, Role to Be Recast — Everything We Know So Far ‘Chicago Fire’ Is Returning for Season 15 — With Major Change ‘Reasonable Doubt’: La La Anthony, Rutina Wesley & More Join Season 4 as Morris Chestnut Sets Return ‘Gen V’ Canceled After 2 Seasons at Prime Video: Stars Break Down What Would Have Happened Next ‘The Interrogator’: Luke Kleintank Joins Stephen 