US Signal acquires data center in Aurora, Illinois - DCD Home News The Investment & Markets Channel US Signal acquires data center in Aurora, Illinois Facility built for CNA Insurance and previously owned by Lincoln Rackhouse February 02, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Data center and fiber firm US Signal has acquired a data center outside Chicago, Illinois. The company this week announced the acquisition of a new data center in Aurora, on the western outskirts of Chicago. – Google Maps The company has acquired 4267 Meridian Parkway in Kane County. The 70,000 sq ft (6,503 sqm) facility totals 1.35MW across 33,000 sq ft (3,065 sqm) of white space. US Signal said it will begin executing expansion plans to increase capacity to 4MW critical (6MW commercial) capacity and will immediately deploy cloud and virtualization services. "This facility aligns perfectly with our long-term growth strategy," said Daniel Watts, CEO of US Signal. "We're investing immediately to expand capacity and will deliver OpenCloud at scale, giving customers in this market a local, enterprise-grade private cloud option backed by our national network and proven operational model." Terms of the deal were not shared. Built around 2007 and previously owned by CNA Insurance, 4267 Meridian was acquired by Bytegrid in 2014 for $30.35 million. Lincoln Rackhouse acquired Bytegrid in 2019 in partnership with Agile Data Sites. DataBridge Sites, a US colocation provider formed from Agile Data Sites merging with ESite Systems, previously listed the facility on its website. Ascent, recently acquired by Wesco , has also been listed at the facility previously. Ascent had previously partnered with Lincoln. Founded in 2001, US Signal provides data center, cloud hosting, and colocation services. Acquired by Igneo Infrastructure Partners in February 2023, the company operates a 9,500-mile fiber network and has around 16 data centers across Michigan, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Oregon, Colorado, and Wisconsin. The company has a history of expansion through acquisition, acquiring OneNeck and its portfolio of facilities, as well as a former DXC facility in Detroit and a data center in Indianapolis , Indiana. "US Signal has consistently executed on a disciplined expansion strategy that combines localized edge facilities with national-scale connectivity and cloud," said Michael Ryder, partner and Co-head of North America at Igneo Infrastructure Partners. "This acquisition and the immediate investment that follows reinforces our confidence in the platform and its ability to deliver long-term value to customers and communities." US Signal also operates its IL01 data center in the Oak Brook area of Chicago at 810 Jorie Blvd. The 13,055 sq ft (1,212 sqm) facility offers 250kW of capacity across 7,500 sq ft (696 sqm) of white space. Serverfarm previously acquired the site in 2014 , but no longer lists the facility on its website. The complex was originally built as the corporate headquarters of the Chicago Bridge & Iron Company (CB&I). Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Investment / M&A / Financing North America data center report: Year-end 2025 26 Mar 2026 Turkcell secures $1bn loan to fund 5G rollout Episode DCD>Inside APAC More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 23 Feb 2026 Amazon plans to spend $12bn on Louisiana data center campuses, developed by Stack Infrastructure Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 4267 Meridian Parkway Aurora Chicago Illinois Kane County US Signal Comments