Plans filed for 1.6 million sq ft data center campus in northeast Pennsylvania - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Plans filed for 1.6 million sq ft data center campus in northeast Pennsylvania Western Hospitality Partners-linked affiliate proposes Project Gravity April 11, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A data center campus is being proposed in northeast Pennsylvania. The Times-Tribune reports that a company applied to develop a multi-building site in Archbald. The proposed ‘Project Gravity’ would span a little over 186 acres between Business Route 6 on its western border, with Eynon Jermyn Road on its east. Project Gravity planned in Archbald, PA – Google Maps Archbald is a borough in Lackawanna County, northeast Pennsylvania. Site plans obtained by the Times-Tribune suggest up to six two-story buildings and two on-site substations could be developed. The application references seven data center buildings, but the actual sketch plans only show six data centers. The buildings would span 135,000 sq ft (12,540 sqm) per floor, suggesting 1.62 million sq ft (150,500 sqm) of floor space across the whole campus. Archbald 25 Developer LLC is listed as the applicant. Registered to a New York office, it's unclear which company is behind the affiliate. The Times-Tribune reports Archbald 25 Developer LLC initially filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State in October as Western Hospitality Partners — Jermyn LLC. Documents seen by the publication also reference Western Hospitality Partners — La Grange LLC. According to Lackawanna County property records, Western Hospitality Partners — Jermyn LLC signed a memorandum of purchase and sale agreement in October to buy the 186.21-acre parcel in Archbald from property owner Five Up Realty LLC. Five Up Realty bought the land from Louis and Dominick DeNaples’ Dunmore-based D&L Realty Company in May 2023 for $825,000. Western Hospitality Partners was recently linked to an eight-building data center campus being proposed outside Louisville, Kentucky. Further details on the company are unavailable. The borough of Archbald is located in the north of Pennsylvania. Whilst Pittsburgh and Philadelphia have proved popular data center markets, the northern portion of the state is only home to AWS and Loop Internet in Wilkes Barres, some 30 miles away from Archbald. Another data center campus is being proposed nearby to Project Gravity. The Wildcat Ridge AI Data Center Campus , planned on 400 acres alongside Business Route 6 and Wildcat Road, would span around 17.2 million sq ft (1.6 million sqm), featuring 14 three-story data centers. The plans have been submitted by engineering firm LaBella Associates on behalf of the unnamed developer. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection North America data center report: Year-end 2025 12 Mar 2026 US Space Command to host informational session about new facility, data center included Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 29 Jan 2026 1GW data center campus proposed in Alberta, Canada Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Archbald Archbald 25 Developer LLC Lackawanna County Pennsylvania Project Gravity Western Hospitality Partners Comments