Massive Missouri data center in St. Charles triggers water and pollution worries | ksdk.com Breaking News More ( ) » Energy Secretive and massive 'Project Cumulus' data center gets partial approval from St. Charles Planning and Zoning Commission The 440-acre site gained approval from St. Charles to build on a polluted groundwater well field near a protected wetland. To stream 5 On Your Side on your phone, you need the 5 On Your Side app. Download the 5 On Your Side app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video ST CHARLES, Mo. — Unanswered questions and growing concerns surround a proposed data center in St. Charles that's nearing final approval. A 440-acre site known only as "Project Cumulus" has been referenced in St. Charles City documents since at least March. The proposed site, located inside the already-polluted Elm Point groundwater well field , asked the St. Charles Planning and Zoning Commission to approve a hazardous substance handling permit along with a site plan permit. Construction of the site would take around 10 years. The commission debated the plan at its public meeting at 6 p.m. on Monday, approving the site plan but denying the hazardous substance handling permit by a single vote. The identity of the site's long-term operator hasn't been released. The entity applying for the site's permits, CRG Cumulus LLC, is a registered agent of St. Louis-based contracting company Clayco, which in January announced it was involved in the construction of 57 active data centers across the country . The data center is also being built less than 2 miles away from an Amazon Fulfillment Center. Data centers that require hundreds of acres of land, like the proposed St. Charles site, fall under the definition of "large-scale," meaning they'll need ample energy infrastructure to run. Ameren Missouri has repeatedly cited the growing number of data centers, especially those built specifically for Generative Artificial Intelligence, throughout the nation as the main reason why Missouri's energy demand is expected to skyrocket in the near future. Large-scale data centers also need large amounts of water to keep their numerous servers cool and online. St. Charles officials said the city has hired an engineering consultant to determine whether the city's water system needs any upgrades to meet the data center's water demand. Multiple residents told 5 On Your Side they would be attending Monday night's meeting to speak out against the data center's approval, triggered by worries related to how close the site is to the polluted wellfield, how the data center will impact the city's water supply and electricity grid, and the data center's projected worsening of stormwater runoff on the area's floodplain. "They are wanting to develop a hazardous substance storage facility within the floodplain where the Elm Point Well Field is, which has already been contaminated," a concerned resident told 5 On Your Side. "They tabled the last meeting in June due to a large number of citizens in attendance that they did not want to hear from." The commission's staff said the data center won't produce any hazardous substances, but will use a "limited number" of hazardous substances on site for cooling and water treatment processes. The permit applicants have also not submitted specific details on the chemicals' storage volumes or the site's emergency response plans, but the commission's staff said this isn't unusual before construction begins. The site also borders a designated wetland protection zone. The site will reportedly leave the area undisturbed and preserve a natural buffer to maintain long-term protection. Flooding is another concern among the commission and residents, as the site is located on a floodplain that's expected to have a major flood once every 100 years. The site's builders are expected to raise the area 15 feet to accommodate the flood risk, but that solution will increase stormwater runoff for the surrounding area. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out