Local groups file suit against TeraWulf, Lansing zoning board over data center - The Ithaca Voice Support Independent Journalism Independent local journalism is one of the few public goods that belongs to all of us, but it only survives when the community that relies on it steps up to sustain it. Your support ensures our reporters can keep asking hard questions and covering the stories that in by providing trustworthy information free to everyone who wants it. If you believe our community deserves strong, independent reporting, now is the moment to invest in it. A one-time gift gives our reporters the immediate resources they need to cover breaking news, watchdog investigations, and the stories that shape daily life in Tompkins County. A monthly donation goes even further by providing steady, reliable support that strengthens our newsroom’s ability to plan ahead, retain talent, and stay fiercely independent all year long. Yes, I want to support local journalism Skip to content The former Cayuga Power Plant. Credit: Casey Martin / The Ithaca Voice Credit: Tompkins County Stay informed with The Ithaca Voice! Get our top stories delivered right to your inbox at 5 a.m. weekdays. Sign up The Ithaca Voice will never – ever – sell your personal information. ITHACA, N.Y. — Local environmental groups have filed a lawsuit against the Town of Lansing Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) and the developers of a controversial data center. The suit comes after last month’s ZBA decision to interpret the data center as an allowed use in the town’s industrial zone. TeraWulf, a Maryland-based company, wants to build an AI data center at the site of a former coal-fired power plant. Those plans hit a snag when the Town of Lansing’s code enforcement officer determined that the project did not comply with the town’s zoning code. TeraWulf appealed to the ZBA, and a series of heated meetings followed . The board determined on Dec. 23 the project was a permitted use and could move forward. Now local environmental groups are challenging that decision. The lawsuit , known as an Article 78, was filed in New York State Supreme Court on Thursday afternoon. The suit seeks to annul the ZBA’s decision “based on errors of law and violations of lawful procedure.” Cayuga Lake Action Now (CLEAN) and FLX Strong, the two petitioners in the suit, said in statement that the ZBA’s decision sets an “alarming precedent.” “We will continue to educate the public as to the many serious impacts that data centers represent, both to our economy in the form of rising electric bills and strain on the electric grid, and to our communities and environment in the form of noise and light pollution, impacts on our lakes, open spaces, and recreational resources and unnecessary CO2 emissions,” the statement reads. In response to a request for comment, TeraWulf Chief Strategy Office Kerri Langlais said the company believes the lawsuit “is without merit.” “We remain focused on continuing the Planning Board process and working constructively with the Town and relevant officials to advance permitting and construction of the Cayuga Data Campus at the very earliest,” she wrote in an email to The Ithaca Voice . Supporters of data centers often cite the increase they bring in local tax dollars and the jobs they create. Most new employment opportunities associated with data centers are typically temporary construction jobs . Across the country, pushback is mounting against large scale data center projects over concerns around water use, carbon emissions, and electricity demand . Opponents of the data center have said they support the Lansing code enforcement officer’s initial decision that a data center was not an allowed use in the town’s industrial zone. But more recently, the ZBA determined the data center fit with the town’s zoning code definition of a “general processing” facility, and therefore is an allowed use in an industrial zone. The lawsuit challenges the ZBA’s decision, calling it an “irrational” choice that resulted in the definition of “general processing” expanding to “encompass virtually any business uses.” Further, the lawsuit also claims ZBA chairperson Jack Young was biased and prejudged the outcome of the appeals. The lawsuit cites an email from Young to Lansing Town Supervisor Ruth Groff, which reads “the ‘[b]ottom line’ was that the Town ‘could use the money’ from the Project and that he ‘personally hope[s] [the data center] will eventually get approved.’” “The Chairperson neither disclosed his views nor recused himself from considering the appeals,” the suit alleges. Young called the arguments laid out in the lawsuit a “false narrative.” “It has nothing to do with the ZBA’s consideration of whether I like data centers or don’t like them. Every single person on the ZBA has an opinion on data centers,” Young said in an interview on Jan. 29. Young said that while the ZBA doesn’t have a role in approving the proposal itself, he hopes the developer “will find a way to make it work.” Groff declined to comment to The Ithaca Voice. Young said some of the arguments laid out in the lawsuit made sense. He said the town’s zoning code was inadequate when it came to a project proposal like a data center. “It’s embarrassing that a $400 million project could depend on the meaning of two words that aren’t defined anywhere in the code,” he said. Lansing’s zoning code prohibits any land use “not specifically permitted.” However, the Town of Lansing’s legal counsel previously told ZBA members that when the zoning code is vague, the decision weighs in favor of the property owner. While Young believes the town’s zoning code could be more detailed, he also thinks the lawsuit won’t succeed. “In this case, I think the people who filed it have thrown everything in the kitchen sink,” Young said. ”You know, it’s the old ‘throw everything at the wall and see if something sticks.’” Young suggested the lawsuit was “possibly” filed because of personal vendettas. Young noted that CLEAN founder John Dennis unsuccessfully attempted to join the Lansing ZBA as the board was reviewing TeraWulf’s appeals. He also said attorney Stephen Daly, who is representing CLEAN and FLX Strong, might dislike that he was told to sit down after attempting to address the ZBA when it wasn’t his turn to during a Dec. 16 meeting period. Petitioner and FLX Strong president Kenneth Wolkin rejected the claim the suit had been filed because of any personal feuds. Wolkin pointed toward Young’s comments that were favorable to the data center as evidence to the contrary. “We are deeply concerned that our zoning board has effectively stepped in and taken away the role of our town board and taken away the legislative process by effectively rewriting the zoning code through an incredibly overly broad reading of the term ‘general processing’ in a way that’s just incredibly problematic,” Wolkin said. Petition – FLX Strong – Final Download More stories like this Fernando Figueroa Fernando Figueroa is The Ithaca Voice's environmental beat reporter through a partnership with Report for America. More by Fernando Figueroa Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of The Ithaca Voice directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Ithaca Voice Newsletter Continue Link Copy link Manage Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions. Functional Functional Always 