Millard County Commission in Utah approves data center land rezoning request - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Millard County Commission in Utah approves data center land rezoning request Facility would be built on 4,000 acre land parcel August 06, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say The Millard County Commission in Utah has approved a data center land rezoning request. The request concerns an approximately 4,000 acre land parcel currently belonging to Triple C Farms. Located at 11000 N McCornick Road, the August 5 commission meeting ended with the land being rezoned from agricultural use to heavy industrial use. – Google Maps But a conditional use permit will also be required in order for operator Joule Capital Partners to commence construction. Mark McDougal, a partner of Joule Capital Partners and part-owner of Triple C Farms, told ABC4 that the project would begin construction and house tenants as early as 2026. He added: “This project is actually on the farm that my family and I have been farming for the last two decades. Our hope is that we can… integrate with the local populations. We want to be neighbors.” The estimated capacity and gross floor area of the facility are unknown. Mid-Utah Radio has reported previously on Joule Capital Partners, mentioning an existing data center, but information about this facility is sparse. The company’s website says that it “will soon be unveiling the High Performance Compute Data Center Campus of the future in Utah,” but it is unclear which facility this refers to. The website also says that it “is laying the foundation to bring multiple gigawatts of capacity to Utah, with critical elements” like access to six major long-haul fiber routes and water cooling capabilities. Utah is expected to see massive growth within its data center sector over the rest of the decade due to favorable tax incentives and affordable real estate. Much of this growth will be in Salt Lake City, where capacity is expected to grow 699 percent by 2030, expected to reach 1,271MW, according to Upwind . More in Construction & Site Selection North America data center report: Year-end 2025 10 Apr 2026 Prologis' 900MW 'Project Sail' gets the go-ahead in Coweta County, Georgia Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 06 Jan 2026 RadiusDC looks to build two data centers outside Indianapolis, Indiana Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 11000 N McCornick Road Joule Capital Partners Mark McDougal Millard County Millard County Commission Utah Comments