Edged launches 36MW data center in Phoenix, Arizona - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Edged launches 36MW data center in Phoenix, Arizona Company launches first Arizona facility April 08, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say US operator Edged has launched a new data center in Phoenix, Arizona. The Endeavour-owned firm this month announced the opening of its PHX01-1 facility. – Edged Located on 12 acres at 8811 E. Warner Road in the Mesa area of Maricopa County, the two-story facility offers 36MW across 210,000 sq ft (19,510 sqm). "This marks a major milestone in offering a high-performance environment to power the next generation of heavy compute while protecting local resources. The greater Phoenix region has become one of the most dynamic technology markets in the country," said Bryant Farland, president and CEO of Edged US. "Given Arizona’s water pressures, building a data center that requires zero water for cooling isn't just good business. It’s the right thing to do for the region’s long-term health.” Reports that Edged was planning a Phoenix data center surfaced in early 2023. The company broke ground on the facility in August 2024 and topped it out in April 2025 . The facility offers densities up to 400kW per rack via liquid cooling, and 120kW via air-cooling. The site uses cooling technology from Edged’s sister company ThermalWorks. "Mesa has earned a 100-year assured water supply designation because we've made hard choices about how we grow,” said Mesa Mayor Freeman. “Edged US shares our commitment to sustainable growth and built a world-class AI facility that uses zero water. That's not just good for business; that's the kind of partner we want helping us elevate Mesa." Edged (formerly Edged Energy) is part of Endeavour, which was set up by Aligned founder Jakob Carnemark. The company has data centers either operating or in development in Bilbao , Madrid, and Barcelona in Spain; Lisbon, Portugal; and across the US, including Missouri , Arizona , Texas , Georgia , Iowa , Ohio , and Illinois . Subscribe to our daily newsletters Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter series. More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 23 Apr 2026 Alcoa in talks to sell former New York smelter site to Bitcoin miner NYDIG Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 22 Jan 2026 SambaNova seeking $500m in funding after acquisition talks with Intel stall – report Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 8811 East Warner Road Arizona Edged Energy Maricopa County Mesa PHX01-1 Phoenix Comments