Struggle Against Mega-development at Wilderness Battlefield Continues | American Battlefield Trust Skip to main content The Wilderness, Spotsylvania and Orange Counties, Va. Buddy Secor Struggle Against Mega-development at Wilderness Battlefield Continues The controversial Wilderness Crossing proposal stands to see a massive development — including millions of square feet of data centers — impinging on the battlefield’s historic landscape. Speak Out Now Update: On September 16, 2025, Circuit Court rules challenge to Wilderness Crossing mega-development may proceed A lawsuit challenging the sprawling Wilderness Crossing mega-development at the gateway to the Wilderness Battlefield may proceed, a judge ruled in a key legal victory for the American Battlefield Trust, other preservation groups and local homeowners seeking to protect historical and cultural resources from irrevocable harm by that project. Learn more about this decision. Lawsuit On the same evening it first appeared on the Board of Supervisor’s agenda, the Wilderness Crossing project — by far the largest rezoning in Orange County history — was approved despite overwhelming public opposition. Moreover, the plan voted on by the Board of Supervisors differed significantly from what was discussed and advanced by the Planning Commission just a few weeks prior. Yet, much of this pertinent information was intentionally obscured and not appropriately evaluated. Identifying significant failures in both the substance of the proposal and the process by which it was approved, the Trust believes that the rezoning vote was fundamentally flawed and, together with other regional nonprofits and private citizens, filed a legal challenge in Orange County Circuit Court in May 2023. A second, parallel suit against the County filed by the Piedmont Environmental Council (PEC) over alleged violations of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act revealed that Amazon has been behind the controversial proposal since at least April 2022 . In March 2025, our lawsuit faced a demurrer hearing , or a motion by the defendants that we do not have a valid legal claim and therefore should not be allowed to advance to a trial. After substantial deliberation, the court ruled on September 16, 2025 that four of our seven charges would to continue to trial . This is a major victory, but it does not yet protect the Wilderness Battlefield. The trial date has not yet been set, but we are already preparing to mount our case that the Orange Board of Supervisors made several critical missteps in their handling of the rezoning which invalidate it. Orange County Resources Lawsuit challenges Wilderness Crossing rezoning in Orange (Free Lance-Star) Orange County could be sued for alleged FOIA violations Orange County OKs Wilderness Crossing despite outpouring of opposition (Daily Progress) Orange County sees red over plans for major development (WVTF) National nonprofit sues over Wilderness Crossing development (Bay Journal) Orange County residents don't like idea of new Wilderness Crossing development (CBS19) Wilderness Crossing back before Orange Planners this week (Culpeper Star-Exponent) Allied Opposition The Trust is not alone in standing against this mega-development. Since the Wilderness Crossing mega-development was first proposed in 2022, the Wilderness Battlefield Coalition has raised tough questions about the impacts of the development on the Wilderness and Chancellorsville battlefields, along with other environmental and historic resources along the Route 3 corridor. The Wilderness Battlefield Coalition is composed of 11 national, regional and local preservation organizations. All 11 groups have been active in advocating against the Wilderness Crossing development as proposed. In May 2024, the National Trust for Historic Preservation identified the Wilderness as one of the 11 Most Endangered Historic Sites in the nation because of the threat posed by the Wilderness Crossing development. In November 2024, the Piedmont Environmental Council released a new video about the threat posed by data centers to the Wilderness and other battlefields. Beyond the American Battlefield Trust, the lawsuit to overturn the rezoning, includes the Central Virginia Battlefields Trust and Friends of Wilderness Battlefield, as well as local homeowners, as plaintiffs. Amicus curiae briefs filed in support of the challenge , one by the National Parks Conservation Association, National Trust for Historic Preservation and the Coalition to Protect America’s National Parks, and another by the Piedmont Environmental Council (PEC), detailed the extraordinary investments that have been made to preserve the Wilderness Battlefield and the serious threats that the Wilderness Crossing development portends for that sacred ground. PEC also legally engaged regarding Freedom of Information Act issues with Wilderness Crossing in a separate lawsuit, and produced a bounty of outstanding materials about the impact of data center development in Virginia. On May 1, 2024, the dire situation led the National Trust for Historic Preservation to include the Wilderness on its annual list of the country’s 11 Most Endangered Historic Places from the National Trust for Historic Preservation . Preservation Virginia has also repeatedly included battlefields threatened by data center development on its statewide watchlists. Join historic preservation activists from across the nation by signing our petition urging protection of the Wilderness — and the numerous Virginia battlefields threatened by data center developments. You can also make a donation specifically to support the Trust’s advocacy work on behalf of hallowed ground , helping defray our legal costs at the Wilderness and Manassas , and holding the line against inappropriate development elsewhere. Sign the Petition Donate to Support Advocacy How You Can Help Sign the Petition Make a Donation 11 Most Endangered Historic Places View Wilderness Crossing Video by PEC Proposal A massive residential and commercial development – the largest in Orange County history – has been proposed at the gateway to the Wilderness Battlefield where it would impact adjacent core battlefield land and loom over the Congressionally authorized boundary of the Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania Battlefields National Military Park. At stake is the rezoning of more than 2,600 acres that could result in: more than 5,000 residential units, 200,000 square feet of mixed-use commercial development, and 732 acres of data centers and distribution warehouses. It isn’t just the battlefield that stands to suffer. If this mega-development is allowed to move forward, growth will come at the cost of current residents’ quality of life. Already congested roadways will be utterly overwhelmed by nearly 50,000 new vehicle trips along the area’s major arteries each day. Resident services will be stretched to the breaking point and beyond. Once again, we ask local residents and preservationists advocates to take a stand against this massive development project near the Wilderness Battlefield. Please speak out today to demand the county adhere to its own guidance for development in this sensitive area. The Wilderness Crossing mega-development is poised to bring huge swaths of development across multiple categories – from single-family homes to data centers, distribution warehouses and other light-industrial uses. Wilderness Battlefield Coalition Data Center Development and Historic Battlefields Preserve Data Center Development and Historic Battlefields Coverage of Wilderness Crossing Proposal Orange County OKs Wilderness Crossing Despite Outpouring of Opposition Spotsylvania County Says it's Been Left Out of Talks Over Neighboring Wilderness Crossing Development Orange County Residents Don't Like Idea of New Wilderness Crossing Development Wilderness Crossing Design Guidelines Manual Orange County Planning Commission Questions Wilderness Crossing Developer at Recent Work Session