Temple City Council votes to move forward with plan for data center | kcentv.com Breaking News More ( ) » Local News Temple City Council votes to move forward with plan for data center The Temple City Council voted to advance a plan that would bring a data center to the town after an extended public comment period. To stream 6 News on your phone, you need the 6 News app. Download the 6 News app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video TEMPLE, Texas — The Temple City Council voted to take the next step to bring a data center to the area during a meeting on Friday, April 17, following a very vocal public comment session. Dozens of community members attended the meeting to comment on two proposed action items specifically: an ordinance authorizing the annexation of a plot of land and an ordinance authorizing a rezoning and binding site development plan request for a plot of land. Both items tie into a proposal to create a data center in the area for Rowan Digital Infrastructure. Many community members in attendance at the meeting raised concerns over the proposed data center, and made their voices heard during a lengthy public comment period. "I'm worried about the damage to the local infrastructure that all of these citizens are going to drive and commute on every day," one resident said. "You're gonna build this thing, well, I hope not, but you're gonna build this and then you're gonna hightail it back to Denver or Australia," another resident said. "Who is actually, since none of us have seen this nebulous contract that hasn't been executed yet. Who is gonna actually be responsible for all of these things we're talking about?" Chris Kurtz, Director of Water Strategy for Rowan, addressed the crowd. "The staff that we work with, we negotiate the utility service agreement," Kurtz said. "I mean this from the bottom of my heart, they have your best interest in mind." The comment was met with laughter from the floor. Residents spent hours asking questions of the company and voicing concerns about the project, until Mayor Tim Davis cut off discussion just before midnight. The City Council then voted to approve the annexation and rezoning of the site 4-0, with one abstention from each vote. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out