Public meeting over planned data center project in Lisle, Illinois, postponed due to large number of attendees - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Public meeting over planned data center project in Lisle, Illinois, postponed due to large number of attendees Cloud Centers seeks to redevelop former Lockformer superfund site January 23, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A public meeting about a proposed data center project outside Chicago, Illinois, was postponed after too many people showed up. Data center development and advisory firm Cloud Centers has requested approval of a special use permit for the development and operation of an approximately 50MW colocation data center. Construction on the two-story, 256,000 sq ft (23,785 sqm) facility could start by Q3 2026, with the site launching by the end of 2027. – Google Maps More than 300 people reportedly showed up for the village’s planning and zoning commission meeting this week, exceeding the 250-person capacity in the village board chambers and overflow room. It could be several weeks until the meeting is reconvened at a larger venue. Lisle is a village in DuPage County, on the western outskirts of Chicago, near Naperville. The property, at 711 Ogden Avenue, was previously occupied by sheet metal equipment manufacturer Lockformer Company, which provides roll forming machines to build HVAC equipment and ducts. The company had been present there since the 1960s, but has been vacant since around 2005. A ComEd-owned is around 500 ft (152 meters) away. Lisle DC, LLC is the listed property owner, alongside Hamilton Partners-affiliated HP Wells Street, LLC and Mestek, Inc. The site was up for sale back in 2022 , being pitched by JLL as a potential data center site. The ~18-acre site currently features a 12,000 sq ft (1,100 sqm) single-story office and manufacturing building. The property is a superfund site, having previously been contaminated with trichloroethylene (TCE) that Lockformer had used as a degreaser. The state sued the company over the contamination in the early 2000s. Lockformer’s parent company, Met-Coil, was acquired by Mestek in 2001. Cloud Centers provides data center development, investment, and advisory services. The company has been involved with data center projects in Chicago, Utah, Georgia, Minnesota, Texas, and California, as well as a project in the Philippines . Several were for colocation firm DataBank. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 29 Jan 2026 Sharjah looks to lure data centers to UAE city, signs MoU with Chinese cloud player Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 06 Mar 2026 GridAI partners with Amp Z to deploy energy orchestration platform across AI data center portfolio Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 711 Ogden Avenue Chicago Cloud Centers Cloud Centers LLC DuPage County Hamilton Partners Illinois Lisle Lockformer Mestek Comments