Sand Springs city leaders postpone action on proposed data center project | News | fox23.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email News Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Sand Springs city leaders postponed action on a proposed data center project after several people in the community planned a peaceful protest outside City Hall on Monday. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save SAND SPRINGS, Okla. — Sand Springs city leaders have postponed action on proposed data center project after they received a formal request from White Rose Partners, the developers for the data center, to postponed action on a proposed data center project after several people in the community planned a peaceful protest outside City Hall on Monday. A more than 800-acre proposed data center called Project Spring would be built north of Sand Springs on Highway 97. The proposal was scheduled for public review on Dec. 3 by the planning commission and again on Dec. 15 by the city council, but they will not move forward as planned in order to take more time to gather the information they need. FOX23 talked to two protesters who say there are so many impacts this center could have on people in the community and they're glad that showing up made a difference. “I’m really excited, this is fantastic news. The fight’s not over, we’re still in it. This is one of those tactics where they’re going to try and kind of cool our fire. We’re not going to slow this roll. We’re going to roll right through this like a freight train. We’re going to keep up the good fight. This is a small victory. We won this battle, [but] we still have a war to go,” said one of the protestors. The City of Sand Springs says according to the developers, they are seeking additional time to provide more information regarding the proposed project and to address questions raised by City staff and community members. "City staff will work with White Rose Partners to identify a future Planning Commission meeting date for the continued item. Once a new date is finalized, it will be publicly announced and posted in accordance with standard meeting notification procedures." the City of Sand Springs says in a statement sent to FOX23. White Rose Partners released a statement on the request for the continuance saying in part: "After recent discussions with City staff and community members, we understand that additional time would be beneficial to share more information about the project and address questions comprehensively. We believe this will help ensure that both staff and the community have adequate time to consider the project details and any related feedback." In an additional statement from the developers, they say city officials agree with the effort to extend community dialogue. "At this time no future hearings or City considerations are planned for zoning or other requests. The City of Sand Springs will provide all relevant notifications in advance of any future matters." the statement reads. They also state that additional information will be posted ahead for hearings or votes. "The developer will publish extensive information about the proposed project through various channels – including a dedicated project web page – well before any future hearings or votes." Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Tags Sand Springs City Leaders City Hall Peaceful Protest Data Center Project Postponed Action FOX23.com News Staff Author email Follow FOX23.com News Staff More News 1:15 News Video: Local filmmaker honored for documentary highlighting Gold Star Families A local filmmaker was honored Thursday evening for his documentary focusing on fallen service members and their families. Read More Video: Local filmmaker honored for documentary highlighting Gold Star Families 1:16 News Video: Milo’s Tea Company donates compost to Food On The Move's community garden Milo’s Tea Company and Food On The Move partnered on Friday to support fresh food production for Tulsa families through a compost donation at a community garden site. Read More Video: Milo’s Tea Company donates compost to Food On The Move's community garden 3:19 News Video: Oklahoma Senate pushes back on House plan to overhaul TSET, advances revised proposal Lawmakers at the Oklahoma Capitol are divided over the future of the Tobacco Settlement Endowment Trust (TSET), with the Senate now advancing a significantly revised version of a House proposa… Read More Video: Oklahoma Senate pushes back on House plan to overhaul TSET, advances revised proposal 1:07 News Video: Enid Police helps reunite pets with owners after tornado Enid Police are working to reunite pets with their owners after the tornado on Thursday, saying animal welfare remains a priority during disaster response. Read More Video: Enid Police helps reunite pets with owners after tornado News Oklahoma Senate pushes back on House plan to overhaul TSET, advances revised proposal Lawmakers at the Oklahoma Capitol are divided over the future of the Tobacco Settlement Endowment Trust (TSET), with the Senate now advancing a significantly revised version of a House proposa… Read More Oklahoma Senate pushes back on House plan to overhaul TSET, advances revised proposal News Local filmmaker honored for documentary highlighting Gold Star Families A local filmmaker was honored Thursday evening for his documentary focusing on fallen service members and their families. Read More Local filmmaker honored for documentary highlighting Gold Star Families 1:05 News Oklahoma in a Minute: April 24, 2026 In addition to the storm damage in Enid, the Town of Braman says it couldn't sound its sirens because of a separate tornado. That story and more news from across the state in tonight's Oklahom… Read More Oklahoma in a Minute: April 24, 2026 9:29 News In Depth: Tulsa County Commissioner Kelly Dunkerley discusses proposed south Tulsa bridge plan For decades, there has been ongoing discussion about the need for a new Arkansas River bridge in south Tulsa connecting to Bixby. The Memorial Drive Bridge remains the only direct connection b… Read More In Depth: Tulsa County Commissioner Kelly Dunkerley discusses proposed south Tulsa bridge plan News Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu says he was treated for prostate cancer and is now healthy Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says that he has undergone treatment for prostate cancer. It was his first public acknowledgment of the diagnosis. He said that roughly a year and a h… Read More Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu says he was treated for prostate cancer and is now healthy News Police identify the body of 1 missing USF student, second still missing as roommate is charged Law enforcement authorities in Florida say the body of a Bangladeshi doctoral student who went missing with his girlfriend from the University of South Florida has been found on a bridge over … Read More Police identify the body of 1 missing USF student, second still missing as roommate is charged News Cleanup efforts underway after tornado leaves widespread damage in Enid Relief is growing Friday night that no fatalities have been reported after what officials say was an EF4 tornado that struck the Enid community Thursday night, leaving behind widespread destru… Read More Cleanup efforts underway after tornado leaves widespread damage in Enid 2:59 News Video: Cleanup efforts underway after tornado leaves widespread damage in Enid Relief is growing Friday night that no fatalities have been reported after what officials say was an EF4 tornado that struck the Enid community Thursday night, leaving behind widespread destru… Read More Video: Cleanup efforts underway after tornado leaves widespread damage in Enid James Aydelott Currently in Tulsa 61° Partly Cloudy 74° / 