640-acre data center could be built in Iron County, Utah - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 640-acre data center could be built in Iron County, Utah No approvals secured yet April 07, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say A 640-acre data center could be built in Iron County, Utah. The ‘Antelope Data Center,’ backed by developer Pronghorn Development, LLC, was discussed last Thursday in an Iron County Planning Commission meeting. – State of Utah The purpose of the discussion was to “review questions related to the proposed project,” and answers to some of those questions have been posted as a linked document . No action, public hearing, or public comment relating to the data center occurred at Thursday's meeting. According to Iron County, the data center campus would consist of five buildings totaling approximately 1.35 million sq ft (125,000 sqm) and a natural gas power plant offering up to 1.5GW at full buildout. Should it be built, the facility would be located along Antelope Spring Road, approximately 7.8 miles (12.6km) west of Iron Spring Road, Cedar City, Utah. The data center would use a closed-loop cooling system, and Iron County states that it would create “670 direct jobs… in fields such as information technology, power engineering, facility management, security, and administration.” Located in southwestern Utah, Iron County shares a border with Nevada. Cedar City is the county’s largest city. Most of Utah’s data centers are clustered around Salt Lake City. More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 07 Jan 2026 Digital Realty files to expand Digital Dulles campus in Northern Virginia Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 20 Jan 2026 Google behind $1bn data center in Little Rock, Arkansas - report Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment Tags Antelope Data Center Iron County Pronghorn Development Utah Comments