Amazon plans to build third data center at Scioto Darby Road and I-270 HILLIARD City Development: Amazon plans to build third data center in Hilliard at Scioto Darby Road and I-270 A. Kevin Corvo ThisWeek Updated May 27, 2022, 7:33 p.m. ET A third Amazon data center is proposed to be constructed on approximately 151 acres at 4120 Scioto Darby Road at the Interstate 270 overpass. The parcel is on the north side of Scioto Darby Road, at a 45-degree bend in the road, as it passes under Interstate 270, between the exits for Cemetery and Roberts roads. David Meadows, Hilliard’s director of development, said Amazon plans to construct a data center on the Scioto Darby Road site. In a related matter, the Hilliard Planning and Zoning Commission June 9 is to consider a lot split requested by Amazon Web Services for a different data center site. Amazon Web Services is asking to split a 7.5-acres parcel from a 47-acre parcel, according to the application. The lot split is needed for the placement of an electrical substation, Meadows said. Amazon Web Services purchased the land for the third data center more than a year ago. According to Franklin County Auditor’s Office property records, Amazon Web Services Inc. purchased the Scioto Darby Road parcel for $15.3 million in January 2021 from Scioto-Darby Investments. Lauren Lynch, a spokeswoman for Amazon Web Services, did not respond to emails inquiring about the latest data center site. Although, Lynch told ThisWeek News in October 2020, concerning questions about a different data center site in Hilliard, that “AWS has a practice against commenting on our future road map.” Amazon Web Services was expected to begin construction in 2021 on a data center at a 104-acre site between Cosgray and Leppert roads. In November 2020, Hilliard City Council authorized the sale of 104 acres on Cosgray and Leppert roads to Amazon for $14.76 million. But there was a delay in construction of the data center at Cosgray and Leppert roads because the city had to complete work on sanitary sewers, Meadows said. Amazon has begun site work at the Cosgray and Leppert roads site, according to Meadows. The site on Scioto Darby Road would be the third data center site in Hilliard by Amazon. Amazon's first data center is located at the southwest corner of Britton Parkway and Hayden Run Road. Construction of the first of five data centers there began in 2015. Performed in phases, the construction of the fifth and final data center building is in its final stages, Meadows said. kcorvo@thisweeknews.com @ThisWeekCorvo Featured Weekly Ad