Louisville data center plan advances after unanimous vote | In-depth | wdrb.com Skip to main content You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Close Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email A rendering of the proposed data center complex on Camp Ground Road (courtesy Poe Companies) Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save LOUISVILLE, Ky. (WDRB) -- A hyperscale data center planned for Louisville took a step forward Wednesday when a city panel approved the development plans. The 4-0 vote by the Development Review Committee marks the only vote needed for the project envisioned on 150 acres on Camp Ground Road near Shively that already is zoned for the industrial use. Opponents spoke during a public hearing at the Old Jail Building downtown, raising concerns over energy, environmental, noise and other issues that have gained traction as the tech warehouses have expanded in the U.S. The Louisville committee's approval was in stark contrast to a fight in neighboring Oldham County over a proposed data center there. Residents fiercely opposed a planned $6 billion project on farmland, forcing developers to scrap that location and choose another one. The campus on Camp Ground Road just west of Shively would be under construction this year and in use by 2026. (WDRB Photo) Monica Harkins Among several key differences between the two projects are the governmental approvals needed in each place. In Oldham County, the Project Lincoln proposed off KY 53 sought an exemption to build on agricultural land not zoned for a data center. In Louisville, the joint venture between Louisville real estate firm Poe Companies and Virginia-based PowerHouse Data Centers has secured land near the Rubbertown area already teeming with industrial operations. And perhaps most importantly, because the Louisville project doesn't need new land-use approvals, the development committee simply needed to decide if the proposal met the city's land code. It did, the members decided. Opponents spoke during a public hearing at the Old Jail Building downtown, raising concerns over energy, environmental, noise and other issues that have gained traction as the tech warehouses have expanded in the U.S. Ashanti Dallas, who lives in the Chickasaw neighborhood, referenced Elon Musk's xAI data center in Memphis that reportedly faces legal action for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act. "The odor is terrible, and people are having respiratory issues as a result of a data center, of a plant, being placed in their neighborhood," she said. "I want to know what safeguards will you put in place so that those things aren't replicated here." Cliff Ashburner, the developers' attorney, responded by saying that concerns about air quality and noise are "really concerns about the backup generators." (Ashburner, a prominent land-use lawyer, also is representing the Oldham County group.) "The kinds of power issues that would cause those generators to come on would be significant," he said. "It would be a situation where the power plant is no longer producing power, or there was some catastrophic situation where the the lines actually came down. No end user for the Camp Ground Road site has been named. This story may be updated. Related Stories: New Kentucky law lobbied by Google and Meta expands tax breaks for large data centers Kentucky leader says tech groups pushing for expanded tax breaks for data centers Developers unveil plans for large tech data center in Louisville, the 1st of its kind in Kentucky Copyright 2025 WDRB Media. All Rights Reserved. Top Stories on WDRB.com UofL announces reconciliation with Papa John’s founder John Schnatter I-65 shutdown ahead as test drive shows what Louisville drivers may face Mother says 15-year-old stabbed while defending her daughter after Thunder Over Louisville Man killed after car crashes into tree in Louisville's Highview neighborhood, police say Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Tags Data Center Poe Companies Powerhouse Data Centers Louisville Oldham County Project Lincoln Wdrb Wdrb News Louisville News Kentucky News Indiana News Forecast Radar Weather Marc Weinberg's Friday night forecast Most Popular Articles Videos Articles Sorry, there are no recent results for popular articles. Videos Sorry, there are no recent results for popular videos. © Copyright 2026 WDRB , 624 W. Muhammad Ali Blvd. Louisville, KY | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Cookie Preferences | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital . . .