Data center developer Edged eyes tax breaks for potential facility in Fort Worth, Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Data center developer Edged eyes tax breaks for potential facility in Fort Worth, Texas Proposals to be considered on March 31 March 05, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say Data center developer Edged is eyeing tax breaks as part of its plan to construct a 186-acre data center in Fort Worth, Texas. Edged is considering whether to construct a data center and substation at Veale Ranch, a planned industrial site at the southeast corner of I-20 and Chapin School Road, which it bought from real estate developer RMB Capital Investments in July 2025 . – Fort Worth City Council As part of its plans, the City of Fort Worth will consider whether to grant Edged a ten-year abatement for Business Personal Property taxes at a rate of 50 percent, valued at $18.2 million. These incentive payments are “subject to the company’s performance requirements, which could result in a forfeiture of the annual abatement or default if not met,” according to a press release by the City of Fort Worth . These proposals will go before the City Council on March 31. Edged currently operates one Texas campus in the Irving area of Dallas. Located at 505 N Wildwood Drive, the 11-acre DFW01-1 site offers 24MW across 168,610 sq ft (15,665 sqm). Plans for the original Edged Dallas data center were first revealed in September 2023 , and the facility launched in January 2025 . The company secured permission to add a second 24MW data center building in January 2026 . Edged (formerly Edged Energy) is part of Endeavour, which was set up by Aligned founder Jakob Carnemark. The company has data centers either operating or in development in Bilbao , Madrid, and Barcelona in Spain; Lisbon, Portugal; and across the US, including Missouri , Arizona , Texas , Georgia , Iowa , Ohio , and Illinois . More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 09 Dec 2025 InfraRed launches Qu Data Centres in Canada Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio Racing against time: how technology is accelerating data center builds Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive Tags Edged Edged DC Edged Data Centers Fort Worth Texas Veale Ranch Comments