Microsoft plans data center campuses in Dorr and Lowell Townships, Michigan - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Microsoft plans data center campuses in Dorr and Lowell Townships, Michigan Company reveals plans for Kent and Allegan Counties January 08, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say Microsoft is developing further data center campuses in Michigan. In recent weeks, the cloud giant has revealed it is behind a development in Lowell Township, Kent County, and plans for a campus in Dorr Township, Allegan County. Meanwhile, the company's request to rezone land in Gaines Township, Kent County, in December 2025 , has been put on hold. All three Townships lie near Grand Rapids, a city in the south of Michigan. Dorr Township sits south of Grand Rapids and southwest of Gaines Township, while Lowell Township lies east of Grand Rapids. – Franklin Lowell LLC Microsoft behind data center project in Lowell Township Microsoft has revealed that it is behind a data center project in Lowell Township, Kent County. As reported by Fox17 and revealed in a letter published on Lowell Township's website, Microsoft has expressed an interest in acquiring land in the Covenant Business Park so as to develop a data center. The project would see 235 acres developed into a data center campus at 4687 Alden Nash Avenue SE., previously filed for under Franklin Lowell LLC. The proposal was discussed throughout December, but the application was withdrawn on December 18 due to opposition. It has now been revealed that Franklin Lowell LLC was applying on behalf of Microsoft. In the letter, Microsoft explained: "We are introducing ourselves now because we have observed that the community would like more information about the proposal, and we believe it is important to be transparent about our intentions moving forward. We asked the seller to pause the rezone process so that we could spend time with the community early this year and share more about our potential long-term plans before we proceed." Microsoft goes on to note that it is in the "preliminary stage" of development planning, and thus does not have "all the answers yet" about what the project will look like or when it will commence construction. "This letter is meant to begin an open conversation, share who we are, and outline what we would like to accomplish together in the future. We know that this project has raised questions and concerns from the local community, and we are committed to engaging openly and respectfully." The company says it intends to communicate with the community in the coming months before it proceeds with the project. Land in Dorr Township owned by Microsoft – Google Maps Microsoft plans data center campus in Dorr Township, Allegan County Microsoft has revealed it plans to develop a data center on land it owns in Dorr Township, Allegan County. The company purchased nearly 272 acres of land off 144th Avenue near the US 131 in Dorr Township in 2024 for more than $48m, around 20 miles from its planned data center in Gaines Township near Grand Rapids. The plot is currently farmland, located across the street from the Walnutdale Family Farms and Frontier Truck Parts. According to Wilcox Newspapers , 128 acres will be developed for the data center. During a December 18 township board meeting, more than 50 residents attended and raised concerns about impacts on traffic, electricity, and water supply. However, Township Supervisor Jeff Miling informed them that the land parcel is current zoned as commercial and industrial, which permits a data center, and it is unlikely that any challenge to the data center would be successful. The company has yet to submit a formal site plan. In a letter to the Township published after the meeting, Microsoft representative Meredith Lizza reiterated the company's commitment to being water positive by 2030, adding that the facility would not have constant traffic in and out. Another Microsoft spokesperson told WOOD-TV News 8 : "Project plans, including construction timelines, are yet to be finalized. We continue to work with our local partners and are committed to sharing information when we have it.” Microsoft project in Gaines Township put on hold Meanwhile, Microsoft's project in nearby Gaines Township, Kent County, has been put on hold for "several weeks." The company revealed it was seeking to develop a data center in the county in December 2025 , having purchased some 316 acres of land in October 2024 . The company submitted a rezoning request for the land in December, which was set to be discussed during a December 18 meeting. The meeting, however, did not go as planned. With a capacity of 250 at the venue, far more local residents turned up, forcing the planning commission to adjourn and reschedule. As per Crain's Grand Rapids Business , the rezoning application will now be discussed in February at the South Christian High School auditorium, which has more space. Michigan is seeing growing interest from data center developers. Several new projects have popped up, including a $1 billion data center for Meta - though this has since been withdrawn - and is planned to be home to one of the Stargate data center campuses. Most of Michigan's data centers are centered around Detroit, but Grand Rapids, towards the west of the state, also has a small hub of facilities. More in Construction & Site Selection HP SitePrint for data centers 16 Apr 2026 Construction begins on 204MW data center campus outside Berlin, Germany Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 18 Feb 2026 Anthropic cloud spend expected to reach $80bn through 2029 Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control Tags Allegan County Dorr Township Gaines Township Grand Rapids Kent County Lowell Township Michigan Microsoft Comments