Global AI set to develop data center outside Denver, Colorado - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Global AI set to develop data center outside Denver, Colorado Company could launch first phase later this year at former Kodak site February 09, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Global AI, a data center firm partnered with Saudi AI company Humain, is looking to develop a data center outside Denver, Colorado. Global AI bought three parcels totaling 438 acres near Windsor in Weld County last year. The purchase, including land and former industrial buildings, was completed for $15.6 million in late November. – Google Maps BizJournals reports the company is now looking at developing the acquired site into a data center. Weld County planning director David Eisenbraun told BJ the company plans to build an operational data center by the end of this year and expand further in future. The company is set to gut one of the two existing buildings and develop the first phase of an 18-24MW facility this year. The company reportedly initially aims to expand to 50-60MW, eventually taking the site up to a potential 1GW. Investment in the development could reportedly range from $2 billion to $20bn depending on the final scale of the project. Expansion towards 1GW would require additional transmission and/or generation capacity. "They're building all what's available to the grid for Poudre Valley [Rural Electric Association] and then any future conversations, they're looking at other on-site technologies to be able to basically create some of that delta that the power companies may not be able to provide," Eisenbraun told BizJournal. "Where they're located is a fairly heavy industrial park already, where there's a lot of different power users. Both Xcel (Energy) and Powder Valley are there, and so there's future conversations to have depending on the demand." Windsor is a municipality some 60 miles north of Denver. The Global AI site, at 2000 Howard Smith Avenue West, previously hosted Carestream Health and was originally part of the larger Eastman Kodak campus. Launched in the late 1960s, Kodak employed some 3,000 people at the campus at its peak in the 1970s and 80s. Carestream, a medical imaging company spun out from Kodak, closed its facility at the site in 2024 and put the site property up for sale. Local developer Martin Lind purchased the Caresteam site for $3.5 million in February 2025, in turn selling to GlobalAI later in the year. Global AI currently operates a 32MW facility in Endicott, New York. The company claims that the site, set across two buildings including 1701 North Street, is the largest cluster of Nvidia GB300s in New York. Global AI deploying Nvidia hardware in its New York data center – Global AI The buildings were originally built by IBM, like much of Endicott's industrial district. The village, in Broome County, is known as the birthplace of IBM. Both of Global AI's founders are also linked to IBM. Co-founder John E. Kelly III was the creator of IBM's Watson and spent nearly 40 years at the company. CEO Sami Issa founded a joint venture between Mubadala Development Company and IBM, and also founded W3bcloud, a cloud joint venture from AMD and Consensys, that aimed to build blockchain-based data centers for Web3. Global AI announced a partnership with Saudi AI firm Humain last year, with the latter set to deploy in the former’s facilities. The two firms then announced plans to develop “large-scale AI data centers and compute capacity in the United States,” without providing details. "Global AI continuously evaluates potential properties as part of its long-term growth and expansion planning. The company owns property in Colorado, among other locations, and is assessing multiple sites across the United States in parallel. No final decisions have been made regarding future development or expansion locations," Raeda Al Sarayreh, a Global AI spokesperson, told the publication. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 08 Dec 2025 Land rezoning approved for data center in Lyon County, Nevada Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 19 Nov 2025 Sabey targets Indianapolis for 250MW data center campus Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 2000 Howard Smith Avenue West Colorado Denver Global AI Weld County Windsor Comments