Edged announces 13MW data center outside Des Moines, Iowa - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Edged announces 13MW data center outside Des Moines, Iowa Work on new facility to start in Q2 for 2027 completion date March 05, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Data center firm Edged is developing a new facility outside Des Moines, Iowa. The company this week announced a new data center in Ankeny in Polk County, to the north of Des Moines. – Google Maps Located on 17.5 acres at 2701 Southeast 90th Street, the site will house an approximately 105,000-square-foot (9,755 sqm) facility known as Edged Des Moines. It will offer 13.2MW of capacity. Edged will break ground on the project in Q2 of 2025, and construction is slated to last 24 months. The company said it aims to invest $187 million in the project. Reports that Edged was looking to develop a campus in the area surfaced last year , with plans for a two-building campus. Ankeny City Council members unanimously approved a development agreement with Edged earlier this week for the project. The company said the modular system supports densities of up to 70kW per rack with air cooling and 200kW per rack with plug-and-play liquid cooling integration. “Everything we do at Edged is designed to maximize sustainability, and our data centers’ optimization of energy efficiency and water conservation are a big part of that vision,” said Bryant Farland, Edged CEO. “We are honored to be partnering with the City of Ankeny, which shares our vision of a more sustainable future. Together, we are leveraging advanced technology for positive impact.” The company noted it will be investing in water and sewer extensions to serve the site. These utility extensions will also serve an additional 120 acres in the immediate area, which Edged said will open up more land for new development. “The City of Ankeny couldn’t be more thrilled to have Edged building a new state-of-the-art facility in Ankeny,” said Derek Lord, economic development director for the City of Ankeny. “The greater Des Moines area has become a destination for tech innovation, and with this new Edged facility, our region continues to attract significant investment in this space and is viewed as an ideal location for critical tech development and sustainable infrastructure.” Edged Energy is part of Endeavour, which was set up by Aligned founder Jakob Carnemark. It currently has data centers either operating or in development in Madrid and Barcelona in Spain; Lisbon, Portugal; and across the US, including Missouri , Arizona , Texas , Georgia , Iowa , Ohio , and Illinois . Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Preventing multimillion dollar data center losses through reporting 24 Nov 2025 Sponsored The blueprint for futureproofing AI Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 22 Apr 2026 ECL plans 35MW data center in California that will use some hydrogen power Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 2701 Southeast 90th Street Ankeny Des Moines Edged Data Centers Edged Energy Iowa Polk County Comments