NJFX plans 10MW liquid-cooled data hall in New Jersey - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel NJFX plans 10MW liquid-cooled data hall in New Jersey Company adding high density hall to cable landing station campus December 04, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say NJFX is expanding its cable landing station and data center site in New Jersey. The company, which operates a site in Wall, Monmouth County, announced plans for a new 10MW high-density AI data hall this week. – NJFX The firm said the move is supported by the execution of an electric utility load letter supported by a $3 million deposit, targeting power delivery by end of 2026. Bala Consulting Engineers is working with the company for the project. The 10-acre NJFX campus hosts four subsea cables linking North America to Europe and South America. The company said it has 35 network operators on site. NJFX said the new hall, internally named Project Cool Water, represents the first purpose-built cable landing station campus in North America to support liquid-to-chip AI-ready infrastructure. Gil Santaliz, founder and CEO of NJFX, added: “The vision for NJFX has always been to support US critical infrastructure with purpose-built assets that matter to our global economy. This new design ensures that subsea cables and global network carriers can continue to scale – now with an advanced data hall engineered for the AI era. Our technical and security teams, working with federal, state, and local partners, remain committed to supporting the critical infrastructure of the US.” NJFX acquired the property in 2015 in partnership with Tata Communications. In 2022 the company purchased bore pipes from SubCom in Manasquan and Avon to support additional subsea landings in New Jersey. The is is the landing point of the Havfrue/AEC-2, Seabras-1, TGN-Atlantic South, and the upcoming Confluence-1 systems. The data center totals 64,800 sq ft across two stories. The site features three meet-me rooms. More in Construction & Site Selection North America data center report: Year-end 2025 09 Apr 2026 Hydrogen execs form data center company, target 50MW project in Vestland, Norway Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 06 Mar 2026 Glass-walled Edge data center dubbed the 'Fish Bowl' proposed for South Miami-Dade, Florida Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags CLS Cable Landing Station Monmouth County NJFX New Jersey Wall Township Comments