Stack Infrastructure files for $10bn data center in Fredericksburg, Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Stack Infrastructure files for $10bn data center in Fredericksburg, Virginia Council approves Technology Overlay District across 250 acres for data center development March 01, 2025 By Niva Yadav Have your say Stack Infrastructure and real estate developer Silver Companies are planning a $10 billion data center in Fredericksburg, Virginia. – Fredericksburg City Council The project was announced this week by the City of Fredericksburg. Located in the Celebrate Virginia area between Gordon W Shelton Boulevard and Hilton Drive, the parcel is part of the 250-acre Technology Overlay District recently approved by the Fredericksburg City Council. The council voted 7-0 to approve the Technology Overlay District to pave the way for data center development. The Fredericksburg Chamber of Commerce said eight to 12 data centers could be built on the site. Specifications of the data center have not yet been shared. Recent months have seen Fredericksburg push for data centers. The council said it owes it to city residents to get some of the millions of dollars in revenue that it believes data centers will bring in. The full buildout of the data center campus is contingent on final entitlements, water services agreements, and Dominion Energy’s delivery of transmission power to the site. Stack currently lists six campuses in operation and/or development across Northern Virginia, totaling more than 700MW across around a dozen buildings. Stack is also currently developing a 500-acre, 1GW campus in Virginia's Stafford County some 10 miles north of Gordon W. Shelton Blvd. The company also announced plans for a 144MW campus in Loudoun County, Virginia, earlier this year. Founded in 1941, Silver Companies is a real estate developer, building hospitality, senior housing, and multifamily projects. The company was founded in Virginia but is now headquartered in Boca Raton, Florida. After previously investing in T5, IPI launched Stack in 2019 after merging several T5 data centers with three Infomart facilities acquired the previous year into a new operator. Today the company has some 4GW in operation or development globally, with another 6GW planned in the future. Across the US the company has data centers in Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas Fort Worth, New Albany, Northern Virginia, Phoenix, Portland, and Silicon Valley. More in Construction & Site Selection Hong Kong: Asia’s connectivity hub 31 Mar 2026 Planning decision on Rochelle, Illinois, data center postponed Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 10 Apr 2026 AWS scales up investment commitment for Mississippi data centers to $25bn Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Celebrate Virginia Fredericksburg Fredericksburg City Council Silver Companies Stack Stack Infrastructure Virginia Comments