How a South Texas data center is quietly rewiring the border MySA Logo Hearst Newspapers Logo Skip to main content Business How a South Texas data center is quietly rewiring the border McAllen skyrise is a 'gateway for economic opportunity.' By Dina Arévalo , South Texas Reporter Aug 6, 2025 Engineering coworkers in data center looking for firewall misconfigurations affecting servers. IT staff members in server room check systems bottlenecks leading to sluggish data transfer rates Dragos Condrea/Getty Images A New Jersey data center company is planning a massive $5.3 million expansion of its footprint in South Texas , aiming to cement its role as the “internet gateway between Mexico and the U.S.” 1547 Critical Systems Realty is planning to expand its existing data center operations in the Rio Grande Valley, according to Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation, or TDLR, records, which are subject to change. The company, which is headquartered in Matawan, New Jersey, and operates nearly a dozen data centers across the country, already has a center in McAllen, the largest city in Hidalgo County. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The Chase Tower, located at 22 S. 10th St. in McAllen, is seen in this image from Google Street View. Courtesy Google Street View The Chase Tower is located at the corner of South 10th Street and Austin Avenue in McAllen, in the Rio Grande Valley. Dina Arévalo Where is the 1547 data center located? The McAllen data center, which 1547 calls MCTX1 , is located inside the Chase Tower, a 17-story commercial office building located at 200 S. 10th St. — one of the busiest commercial corridors in the city. Chase Tower serves as the home to businesses such as Chase Bank, the Spanish-language news network, Telemundo 40, and the corporate headquarters of Rhodes Enterprises, one of the Valley’s largest property development companies. 1547 calls the Chase Tower “the most interconnected building in South Texas.” More For You H-E-B takes on California rival in top US grocery store visits Some call it a cult. We just call it a Texas lifestyle. First-of-its-kind thrift store opens in San Antonio. What to know With 10,000 new items out daily, get ready for a whole lot of new secondhand inventory in the Alamo City. Sam’s Club plans $7.7M revamp for 40-year-old South TX location It's one of the oldest Sam's Clubs in South Texas. Now, it's about to undergo a major digitally-focused transformation. Wilderness off-road model continues in Subaru’s Outback lineup for 2026 As Subaru’s flagship Outback wagon moves into its newest generation for 2026, the special Wilderness model continues in the lineup. 100-plus data centers now span the Hill Country. Here's where Tech giants are pouring billions into the Texas Hill Country and reshaping a region locals have long fought to protect. What is the MCTX1 data center? According to 1547, MCTX1 is an internet exchange location that handles telecommunications traffic between the United States and Mexico using fiber optic lines. The current facility boasts 1.5 megawatts of power supplied through underground electricity lines, which are backed up by generators. MCTX1 relays traffic for 46 unique carrier networks and offers two carrier-neutral so-called “meet-me-rooms” that allow carrier networks to physically connect to each other to exchange data. Advertisement Article continues below this ad 1547 calls its MCTX1 data center “South Texas’ premier carrier hotel and data center destination” and Chase Tower a “digital cornerstone.” A New Jersey data center company is planning a massive expansion of its MCTX1 data center in McAllen, in the Rio Grande Valley. Google, Getty Images A New Jersey data center company is planning a massive expansion of its MCTX1 data center in McAllen, in the Rio Grande Valley. Google, Getty Images How is MCTX1 expanding? 1547 is planning a $5.3 million renovation of the existing MCTX1 data center, according to TDLR records. The renovation is slated to begin later this month and will expand the data center’s footprint to nearly 24,000 square feet. Construction could take a year, TDLR records show. But 1547’s website offers a little more insight into what to expect. For instance, in a fact sheet about MCTX1, the company states it intends to increase power capacity from 1.5 megawatts to 5 megawatts. It’s also planning a “significant overhaul of the entire central cooling plant.” Advertisement Article continues below this ad Why is 1547 investing in developing a data center in McAllen? For 1547, McAllen ’s proximity to Mexico , as well as the rest of Latin America, makes it the prime location to establish a data center that can handle international internet traffic and commerce — one that can avoid the pitfalls, such as data lag, that can occur at larger hubs located in major metros. Further, the Valley has long lacked sufficient “middle-mile infrastructure” to connect the internet’s end users with the internet’s larger backbone infrastructure. It’s a gap 1547 hopes MCTX1 will fill. MySA Logo Want more MySA? Make us a Preferred Source on Google to see more of us when you search. Add Preferred Source “As the most interconnected building in South Texas, Chase Tower is more than just a data hub—it’s a gateway for economic opportunity and digital transformation across the U.S.–Mexico border,” the company states in a blog post profiling MCTX1 . Aug 6, 2025 Dina Arévalo South Texas Reporter Dina Arévalo has been a journalist in the Rio Grande Valley since 2004 and is a graduate from Baylor University. She was previously with The Monitor in McAllen covering Hidalgo County governments and KRGV as a weekend technical director and associate producer. Most Popular 1 . Wemby unavailable for Game 3, still recovering from concussion 2 . Large hail, severe storms could hit San Antonio this weekend 3 . Rare aquifer tour opens at Texas' largest cave near San Antonio 4 . First-of-its-kind thrift store opens in San Antonio. What to know 5 . Major $4.5M upgrade coming to luxury Texas Hill Country resort Best Of Readers' Choice YourSA 2026 winners are here! Did your faves win? Explore the best in San Antonio for dining, beauty, entertainment and more. Readers' Choice The best tax services in San Antonio File smarter, not harder, with help from the people who actually read the fine print. Readers' Choice These private schools in San Antonio are kid-tested, parent-approved According to locals, these are the schools worth touring. Readers' Choice The best foundation repair companies in San Antonio Your dream home deserves a solid foundation. Readers' Choice The best med spas in San Antonio To look your best, you’ve got to work with the best. Puzzles The classic newspaper crossword gets a makeover Our new award-winning games from Puzzmo are a free, modern twist on the classic newspaper crossword... Puzzles Cross|word An approachable redesign to a classic, featuring exclusive weekday puzzles. Puzzles Flipart A quick daily flip. Finally someone cracked the code on digital jigsaw puzzles. Puzzles SpellTower Word search but with strategy. Clearing the board feels really good. Puzzles Really Bad Chess A random board...sure. Three queens and seven knights… why not? Enjoy this modern take on the... Puzzles Typeshift Anagrams with a literal twist. Getting the last word is always possible, rarely easy. Shopping Shopping This AeroPress Go coffee maker is 25% off for Cyber Monday Shopping This new YETI bottle is on sale for Cyber Monday: Get 30% off Shopping Save up to 20% on select Weber grills with this limited-time Cyber Monday sale Editor's Pick How to challenge Bexar County property taxes Houston and Texas Former TX reporter opens up about parents' killings Travel George Strait road trip: What to do on the way to Lubbock Shopping The best camping gear storage solutions Let's Play