Data center project in Lawrence County, Ohio, sparks calls for moratorium in neighboring city - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Data center project in Lawrence County, Ohio, sparks calls for moratorium in neighboring city Citizens concerned about transparency January 13, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say The construction of a data center in Lawrence County, Ohio, has sparked calls for a moratorium in the neighboring city of Ironton, which has now passed a first reading at an Ironton City Council meeting. Ironton residents were surprised when AI data center firm Strata Expense announced last December that they had begun building a data center in Lawrence County. The ribbon-cutting ceremony – Strata Expense The facility, backed by server maker Supermicro and intelligence platform provider Ravel, is being built at 1476 County Road 1A in the Haverhill area. The land was sold to the developer by the Lawrence County Economic Development Corporation, which was present at a ribbon-cutting ceremony held by Strata Expense. Ironton citizens expressed worry about the manner in which the data center was approved, its environmental impact, and the potential effect on the community. A petition , titled "Stop the AI data centers in Lawrence County, Ohio," has received 5,178 signatures at time of writing. Those concerned attended a meeting held last week by Ironton City Council and Bill Dingus, the corporation’s executive director, where a moratorium on data centers in Ironton managed to pass on first reading. It will go to a second reading at Ironton City Council’s next meeting. Ironton is located at Ohio’s southern border with Kentucky. Lawrence County, also in Ohio’s south, shares a border with Kentucky and West Virginia. The data center presence in both areas is negligible, and most of the state’s data centers are located around its main metropolitan areas, like Columbus, Cincinnati, and Cleveland. More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 25 Nov 2025 T-Mobile fiber JV Metronet reaches three million locations with fiber rollout Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 10 Mar 2026 Sponsored The winning formula for achieving scale at speed Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities Tags Ironton Lawrence County Ohio Ravel Strata Expense Supermicro US Comments