Proposed Jones County data center axed from zoning board agenda | 13wmaz.com Breaking News More ( ) » Gray Jones Proposed Jones County data center axed from zoning board agenda after developers withdraw Here's what we know about the decision, which came down just after 9 a.m. Monday morning. To stream 13WMAZ on your phone, you need the 13WMAZ app. Download the 13WMAZ app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video JONES COUNTY, Ga. — Editors note: The video attached to this story comes from previous coverage. A proposed Jones County data center will be taken off the agenda from Monday's Planning and Zoning meeting, according to Tim Pitrowski at the zoning board. The project's engineer — Thomas & Hutton — told the county Monday that they were withdrawing the application from Monday's meeting, but it did not say why. According to an email shared by Pitrowski, a project manager for the developer notified the zoning board Monday morning that they wanted to withdraw their application. Because of that, Pitrowski says that means the project is off the agenda. "As a result, it will not be discussed this evening," Pitrowski said. "If an application is submitted in the future, we will provide the same public notifications." The proposal, which was intended for 634 acres near Highway 18 and Highway 49, has caused controversy in the Jones County community. Yard signs and petitions have spread across the county, protesting the project. To stream 13WMAZ on your phone, you need the 13WMAZ app. Download the 13WMAZ app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video The move comes as proposals for data center have popped up in rural communities across Georgia. The developments have often been political lightening rods, often causing packed zoning and commission meetings where the developments are being discussed. RELATED: What are data centers and what do they mean for Central GA? Here’s what you should know The developers of the Jones County data center are the same as the approved data center in Twiggs County , which also caused controversy. The company, Eagle Rock Partners, are developing the 291-acre data center called Pine Ridge Technology Park in Twiggs County. To stream 13WMAZ on your phone, you need the 13WMAZ app. Download the 13WMAZ app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video The project is Jones County has been dubbed Crooked Creek Tech Park, according to emails from the engineering firm Thomas & Hutton. JONES COUNTY DATA CENTER PROPOSAL Credit: Jones County Planning & Zoning Upset landowners in Twiggs County then filed a lawsuit after it was approved by the county, claiming the county did not do their due diligence before approving the project. That case has not gotten to trial yet. RELATED: Landowners file lawsuit trying to stop massive Twiggs County data center. Here's why However, despite being pulled from the agenda, some Jones County residents are still planning on attending the zoning board meeting, which is scheduled for 6 p.m. The Jones County Sheriff's Office says the rest of the agenda has been untouched, which means the meeting will move on as normal. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out