Officials fail to back plans for 1GW data center campus in Florida - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Officials fail to back plans for 1GW data center campus in Florida 1,200-acre development planned outside Fort Pierce in St. Lucie County October 23, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Local officials are recommending against plans for a 1GW data center campus in Florida. As reported by TCPalm , the St. Lucie County planning and zoning commission last week voted 4-2 to recommend against approving an amendment to the area’s comprehensive plans that would allow the development of the Sentinel Grove Technology Park (also known as Project Jarvis). – Google Maps The park would total 1,218 acres outside Fort Pierce, located on the east side of Minute Maid Rd., extending approximately 2,600 feet (792 meters) north of Orange Ave. (SR 68), and situated south and east of the South Florida Water Management District’s C-25 Canal. The site is currently zoned AG-5 Agricultural. The number and capacity of planned data centers on the site aren’t clear. One notice said the zoning would allow for up to 15 million sq ft (1,393,545 sqm) of development, with some five million sq ft (464,515 sqm) in the first phase. The project reportedly represents a total long-term private capital investment of $13.5 billion “for the first 1,000MW of data center capacity.” “Global technology firms increasingly require sites with immediate power adjacency and substantial acreage, and the Sentinel Grove site is uniquely positioned to capture this unmet demand. By accommodating this targeted industry, the County gains a first-mover advantage,” the application said. County staff had recommended approval. The land, a former citrus grove, is owned by Florida-based Epic Estates 68 LLC. Architect and planning firm HJA Design Studios had submitted the request alongside real estate firm Timberline Real Estate Partners. Tallahassee-based land banking investment firm Epic Estates purchased the land for $15 million in July 2024, according to the St. Lucie County Property Appraiser's Office. The project’s water needs would not be provided by the county, and instead would require private, self-provided, self-contained package treatment facilities for water and wastewater. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 04 Nov 2025 Nvidia and Deutsche Telecom officially announce data center project in Munich, Germany Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in Colocation & Wholesale NTT Global Data Centers Guide to India data center expansion 04 Feb 2026 Green Mountain launches heat-reuse project to supply waste heat to trout farm in Rjukan, Norway 21 Apr 2026 Plans to build 1,300-acre data center in Fort Meade, Florida, gets go-ahead from officials Tags Epic Estates Florida Fort Pierce Project Jarvis Sentinel Grove Technology Park St. Lucie County Timberline Real Estate Partners Comments