CyrusOne partners with energy firm Eolian for Dallas data center - DCD Home News The Mission Critical Power Channel CyrusOne partners with energy firm Eolian for Dallas data center DFW7 colocated with existing BESS project, will use existing transmission infrastructure January 14, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Data center operator CyrusOne is partnering with battery energy storage provider Eolian for a campus in Fort Worth, Texas. The company, owned by KKR and BlackRock’s Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP), this week announced a collaborative infrastructure deployment with Eolian at the under-construction DFW7 facility. – Google Maps The agreement reportedly accelerates the project's time to market by leveraging existing high-voltage transmission infrastructure and colocating the facility with an existing grid-scale battery energy storage site. DFW7 is being colocated with Chisholm Grid, a 100MW BESS site seven miles (11.2km) northwest of downtown Fort Worth that began commercial operations in the ERCOT market in 2021. As part of the deal, Eolian said the battery site will be modernized and upgraded, though details weren’t shared. "Our customers' continued growth drives demand for new capacity. Leveraging the existing infrastructure at the Fort Worth campus enables CyrusOne to deliver large-scale capacity to customers beginning in 2026," said Eric Schwartz, CyrusOne CEO. "CyrusOne is accelerating time-to-market for our customers by working creatively with Eolian as an established energy project developer and operator with existing sites in locations that would be difficult to replicate." CyrusOne first filed to develop a facility known as DFW7 in Fort Worth in September 2024 and broke ground in April 2025 . The facility will offer around 70MW of IT capacity. Located along Asphalt Drive in Tarrant County, the $200 million project is set to span 1.9 million sq ft (176,000 sqm) across a single one-story data center. Construction was originally slated to begin in October 2024, with completion expected in Q1 2026. The operator’s Texas portfolio includes more than 14 data centers – both planned and operational – with more than half of those being located around Dallas-Fort Worth. Overall, the company has 80 data centers across seven countries and 30 markets. In the US, CyrusOne has a presence in Arizona, California, Connecticut, Illinois, Kentucky, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Texas, Virginia, and Washington. Eolian has funded the development of nearly 30GW of operating or under-construction energy storage, solar, and wind generating capacity across the US and currently operates a portfolio of wholly-owned utility-scale battery energy storage projects. Founded in 2005, the company has been owned by BlackRock’s GIP since 2020 after the investment giant acquired and rebranded Map Energy’s renewable business. Eolian subsidiary Astral Energy broke ground on Chisholm Grid in August 2020 alongside Able Grid and Map Energy. At the time, the companies called it the largest BESS project in the US outside of California. Eolian later bought out Able Grid’s interest in projects the two companies were working on together. "This project is about problem-solving— using existing infrastructure intelligently to deliver speed to power and speed to data center growth," said Aaron Zubaty, Eolian CEO. "By developing flexible capacity resources at highly networked grid locations, we can enable hyperscale growth without duplicating facilities, expanding transmission, or utilizing additional industrial real estate. This is exactly how the grid should evolve — efficiently, quickly, and in direct response to real load growth. Projects like DFW7 prove that the fastest path forward is not necessarily only to construct transmission infrastructure, but also first to more efficiently use what we have already built." Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Critical Power The Cooling Supplement 24 Nov 2025 Sponsored Lithuania: A truly green data center destination Episode Tech showcase: Smarter power distribution with BESS More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 16 Dec 2025 Oak Hill Capital to acquire Oregon fiber provider Hunter Communications Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags BESS Battery Energy Storage System CyrusOne DFW7 Dallas Fort Worth Eolian Fort Worth Tarrant County Texas Comments