Some residents hesitant about new $1 billion data center headed for central Ohio | NBC4 WCMH-TV Skip to content by: Katie Millard Posted: Jun 24, 2025 / 08:00 AM EDT Updated: Jun 23, 2025 / 10:11 PM EDT SHARE MILLERSPORT, Ohio ( WCMH ) — A $1 billion data center is planned for Fairfield County, but some residents are hesitant about the development. “I’ll be honest, this whole data center deal feels like a hoodwink,” Millersport resident Zack Gorsuch said. “Millersport is a small, beautiful village with deep roots and real community. A massive industrial box dropped on farmland doesn’t add value — it takes away the quiet, the charm, and the natural character that makes this place special.” In mid-May, the Fairfield County Commissioners approved a 500-acre annex to the village of Millersport from neighboring Walnut Township to house a new data center. The project has not officially been announced by the state or Vantage Data Centers, but the Ohio Economic Development Association said Vantage will build a $1 billion data center at the spot, located off State Routes 204 and 37. Those behind the planned data center have not yet announced details like job creation or a timeline. According to Fairfield County Commissioners meeting minutes, the data center is collaborating with Millersport to ensure “everything is in place before the data center breaks ground.” In part, this includes securing the large amount of power needed to run a data center. In May, the Millersport Energy Center submitted a proposal to the Ohio Power Siting Board detailing a power-generating facility that would provide 480 megawatts initially, but offer the eventual capacity of up to 1,600 MW. Pending approval from the Ohio Power Siting Board, it hopes to begin construction in 2026. If approved, the energy center would power the data center, and project plans say it would create 50 permanent jobs and 200 construction jobs. It would be built across three phases and take up about one-fifth of the data center’s acreage. The Millersport Energy Center proposal does not directly reference the Vantage project, but the map provided aligns with the land purchased for the data center. The first of two public meetings about the project will take place July 16 at the Millersport Celebrations Banquet Hall. Millersport resident Lorrie Hoover said she has heard many people are excited about the financial benefits for the town and its schools, but she worries people are overlooking the side effects of building a data center. “I just really don’t think people are aware of what this means for them,” Hoover said. “It also, to me, has a lot of health concerns with gas turbines that will cause a lot of pollution in the air called particular matter, we will have a lot of water usage, and I think people are not aware of all of that and what it’s going to look like right outside of our little town.” Gorsuch agrees with Hoover, saying he believes data centers create few jobs but use a lot of resources. He said a data center would create noise and light pollution, and pointed to frequent tax breaks for data centers. “It’s like selling the soul of the town for the promise of ‘progress’ that never actually shows up for the people who live here,” Gorsuch said. “I’m all for innovation — but not at the cost of our land, our peace and our future.” If approved, this would mark a second central Ohio investment for Vantage Data Centers , which broke ground in New Albany in October 2024. That $2 billion investment will employ more than 1,500 over the course of the project, and marked Vantage’s first venture into the Midwest. Add as preferred source on Google Suggest a Correction Close Modal Suggest a Correction Your name (required) Your email (required) Report a typo or grammatical error (required) Submit Correction Δ ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now Storm Team 4 Weather Alert SIGN UP NOW Most read on NBC4 Pickerington celebrates Styles brothers in NFL Draft Woman pleads not guilty in deadly I-270 crash 1 dead, 1 hurt in wrong-way crash on I-270 Parking changes coming soon for John Glenn International Former Galion school contractor sentenced for child … Prosecutors call witnesses in Meade trial UPS driver blames union for $150,000 buyout denial NFL draft live updates: Second and third rounds If SAVE Act passes, here’s what Ohioans need to vote Disqualified governor candidate claims she’s still … Read More Top Stories Trending on NBC4 Pickerington celebrates Styles brothers in NFL Draft Woman pleads not guilty in deadly I-270 crash 1 dead, 1 hurt in wrong-way crash on I-270 Parking changes coming soon for John Glenn International Former Galion school contractor sentenced for child … Prosecutors call witnesses in Meade trial BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks Don't Miss See these free movies in Ohio’s 2026 film celebration More flight options offered from Columbus NBC4 to welcome 5th Puppy on a Mission in April Download the NBC4 streaming app on your smart TV Columbus’s best free indoor play spaces for kids Local News NOW PLAYING National prescription drug take back day returns Dancing for inclusion and community Woman pleads not guilty in deadly I-270 crash NBC4 Sports Extra | Draft Day The Pick Is In Elementary students get a lesson in traffic safety Columbus Fire welcomes new K-9 member More Videos