Proposal to build data center in Mercer County KY sparks debate among community members Skip to content Residents of Mercer County oppose the proposed data center. Concerns center on potential environmental and health impacts. Local government officials are evaluating data center regulations for the county. by: Jace O'Barto Posted: Feb 15, 2026 / 10:08 PM EST Updated: Feb 15, 2026 / 10:08 PM EST SHARE MERCER COUNTY, Ky. ( FOX 56 ) — A proposed data center in Mercer County is sparking concern among some residents. Diane Floyd said she had loved living in Mercer County since moving five years ago. But she said she felt blindsided after learning about a potential plan to build a data center in the county. “It seemed so out of left field to me. And I think a lot of Mercer County citizens were also completely unaware about the Mercer County government being interested in a data center in our area,” Floyd told FOX 56. Floyd was part of “We Are Mercer County,” an organization dedicated to protecting the community’s farmland and history. She also started an online petition opposing the project, which garnered more than 1,600 signatures. Those concerns were expected to be voiced at Wednesday’s special-called meeting of the Mercer County Joint Planning and Zoning Commission. A consultant is scheduled to present information about data centers before the floor opens for public comment. “It lets me know that I’m not alone in this fight, and other people are incredibly concerned too,” Floyd said. On Saturday, Feb. 14, Burgin Independent Schools released a statement supporting the project. The statement said in part: If developed as projected, this facility could possibly generate an estimated 25 to 30 million dollars annually in new tax revenue for our district. For perspective, our current operating budget is approximately 4 million dollars. This opportunity represents a transformative shift that could strengthen our schools, reduce financial pressure on taxpayers, and create lasting community benefits. But Floyd argued the project would undermine public trust. “The issue is that these data center companies don’t end up paying their fair share through backdoor deals, through loopholes, through extended tax breaks, and the cost of a data center ends up getting passed on to our citizens,” she said. Through her own research, Floyd told FOX 56 she uncovered information about the proposed data center. “I did a little bit of digging and found that JLL Properties had posted a huge parcel of farmland requesting for out-of-state investors for the purpose of building a data center on this farmland. And that post had been made last summer. So, from the outside looking in, it seems like our local government was, in fact, aware of the potential for a data center in Mercer County,” Floyd said. It is not yet clear where the data center would be built. Floyd said she supported growth in the county, but not at the expense of tourism, the environment or public health. “There’s no fixing the environmental impacts that the data center has on that area. So, once a data center goes in, that property can no longer be used for farming,” she said. “We don’t want extractive industries in our area that are going to change the face of our beautiful county and potentially harm our citizens’ health and wellness for decades to come, long beyond the lifespan of a data center,” Floyd added. FOX 56 reached out to Mercer County Judge-Executive Sarah Steele for comment on this issue. In a statement, she said: A private landowner is currently marketing their property as a potential data center site. While no formal application has been submitted at this time, the Harrodsburg-Mercer County Joint Planning and Zoning has retained a consultant to evaluate how data centers may be addressed within county regulations, including options to allow, regulate, or restrict such uses. The public will have an opportunity to provide input at the upcoming meeting. Floyd encouraged residents to attend the special-called meeting, which is scheduled for 5 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 18, at the Mercer County Fairgrounds. Add as preferred source on Google Suggest a Correction Close Modal Suggest a Correction Your name (required) Your email (required) Report a typo or grammatical error (required) Submit Correction Δ ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now 5 Things at 5 p.m. SIGN UP NOW Latest Weather Forecast NOW PLAYING Kentucky weather forecast: 10 p.m. 4/24/26 More Videos Popular Stories Program helps Kentucky inmates get new chance after … ‘Armed and dangerous’ man found dead after Meade … Employees step in after Kentucky Goodwill stabbing Ky. woman kidnapped after man allegedly broke into … CONNECT WITH FOX 56 NEWS ONLINE BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks