Amazon eyes another data center campus outside Columbus, Ohio - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Amazon eyes another data center campus outside Columbus, Ohio Company files for campus in Marysville February 06, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Amazon is looking to develop another data center in Ohio. First reported by the Marysville Journal-Tribune , the Marysville City Council met this week to discuss a community reinvestment area agreement with Amazon Data Services. Amazon looks to develop data centers in Marysville, Ohio – Google Maps Marysville, in Union County, is located some 30 miles northwest of Columbus. The company intends to develop, construct, and operate “one or more data centers," with documents suggesting up to two buildings will be erected within the Marysville Innovation Park. According to the Journal-Tribune, each facility could total 500,000 sq ft. The 55-acre+ site is located at 14684 Industrial Parkway in the eastern portion of the Innovation Park development alongside Rt 33, near Contract Building Components and Nissin Transport. The company is set to invest $1 billion in the project – known as Project Cosmos – with the first building set to begin operations in 2027. The agreement would see Amazon’s development exempt from property tax for up to 30 years. “For nearly a decade, AWS has proudly invested more than $10 billion in digital infrastructure in Ohio,” said Roger Wehner, AWS’s VP, according to the Marysville Matters Substack . “As part of our long-term commitment to the state, we plan to invest $1 billion to build data centers in the city of Marysville and create new, well-paying jobs in the community. We look forward to working with state and local leaders to extend the impact of our investment to Marysville residents and the workforce of the Buckeye State.” Rezoning applications for Project Cosmos were filed with the city last October. In 2023, AWS said that it planned to invest an estimated $7.8 billion by the end of 2029/2030 in data centers in Ohio. Around $3.5 billion of that is expected to go to New Albany, where it announced plans to build a five-building data center campus . The company is also planning developments in other parts of Ohio. In November last year, Amazon announced plans to build a $2 billion data center campus in Sunbury in Central Ohio. The company purchased land for the project at the end of December. Amazon is also planning a campus in Fayette County in Southern Ohio. News of the plans first surfaced in November , with the company acquiring 590 acres in Jefferson Township last month . Local filings suggest the data center could go live in 2026. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection HP SitePrint for data centers 30 Jan 2026 Bitfarms files to convert cryptomine into AI data center Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 21 Nov 2025 Google Cloud and Westinghouse detail AI system for nuclear power plant construction Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control Tags Marysville 14684 Industrial Parkway Marysville Innovation Park AWS Roger Wehner Columbus Amazon Web Services Amazon Data Services Ohio Union County Comments