Meta to develop data center campus outside Toledo, Ohio - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Meta to develop data center campus outside Toledo, Ohio Social media company named as firm behind Liames LLC April 10, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Meta has announced plans for a second data center campus outside Toledo in northern Ohio. The Regional Growth Partnership (RGP), JobsOhio, and Meta announced this week that the social media company will be building a new “AI-optimized data center” in Northwest Ohio. Meta's upcoming Bowling Green campus outside Toledo, Ohio – Meta The 715,000-square-foot (66,425 sqm) project, known as the Bowling Green Data Center , will be located on a 280-acre site in Middleton Township, Wood County. Ground has been broken on the site, off State Rt. 582 between State Rt. 25 and I-75. “We are thrilled that we will be building our Bowling Green Data Center right here in Wood County. We selected Middleton Township for a number of reasons, including great access to infrastructure and renewable energy, a strong pool of talent, and a wonderful set of community partners that have helped us move this project forward,” said Brad Davis, director of data center community and economic development at Meta. “We are excited to become part of the Wood County community, and we look forward to having a strong, mutually beneficial partnership for years to come.” The owner of Facebook, Whatsapp, and Instagram will reportedly invest $800 million in the project. This will be the company’s 28th data center worldwide, and the second in Ohio. “Ohio is shaping the future of the data-driven digital economy, and we are pleased that Meta chose Wood County for this new investment,” added Mike DeWine, Ohio Governor. “Northwest Ohio’s talent pipeline and strategic location will create an environment where Meta, and the other technology companies they attract, can thrive while bringing new opportunities for our regional workforce and their families.” Reports that a ‘Fortune 200 tech company’ was looking at developing a large campus in the area surfaced back in 2023 and was working through the shell company Liames LLC for what was previously known as Project Accordion. Meta has an existing Ohio campus outside Columbus in New Albany. Work started on that site in 2017 , with the campus launching in 2020 . Expansion plans were announced in 2022 . Subscribe to our daily newsletters Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter series. More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 30 Jan 2026 Space Norway partners with Norwegian MoD for cable landing station on Arctic island Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 10 Feb 2026 City of Hilliard challenges Amazon fuel cell project at Ohio data center - report Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control Tags Liames LLC Meta Middleton Township Ohio Project Accordion Toledo Wood County Comments