Developer Krambu looks to build AI data center in Missoula County, Montana - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Developer Krambu looks to build AI data center in Missoula County, Montana The data center would be constructed on the old Bonner Mill Industrial Park March 24, 2026 By Barney Dixon 1 Data center developer Krambu is looking to build an AI data center in Bonner, Montana. The development, which Krambu wants to build at the old Bonner Mill Industrial Park in Missoula County, would have a sustainable footprint, according to its CEO, Steve Wood. – Getty Images In an interview with local news networks, MTN, Wood said the proposed data center would include heat capture in a closed-loop system, allowing it to service other ecosystems, such as aquaponics, hydroponics, or a greenhouse. Wood said Krambu is building the “next innovation” of closed-loop systems. He added that the data center would use the same amount of water that was used to supply the old saw mill. At a local meeting to hear community concerns, attended by Krambu, a potential usage of 500 gallons of water per megawatt was proposed. Krambu has yet to select a client for the project, but Wood suggested that the company was fielding multiple offers, including potential interest from the US Department of Defense. Missoula County has already seen pointed opposition against data centers, largely due to a facility operated by cryptocurrency mining company HyperBlock, which residents complained consumed energy equal to around one-third of the household energy demand in the county. Residents also complained about noise from the facility. In response to community concern in 2019, county commissioners passed zoning regulations for data centers and cryptocurrency operations in the county, forcing operators to source all power from renewable energy sources and recycle all electronic waste. Krampu’s Bonner Mill data center will also have to go through a “special exception review” to ensure impacts to nearby residential properties are addressed, including traffic, noise, lighting, landscaping, and screening and buffering. This is due to its proximity (500 feet) to a residential area. Missoula County officials said the project is still in its “initial stages” and the county has yet to receive a formal application. The aforementioned meeting was organized due to “heightened public interest,” and county officials promised a further public consultation if a formal application is received for the project. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain Sponsored Why 2/3 of data center development is choosing frontier markets over Northern Virginia Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 05 Dec 2025 Shark Tank's Kevin O'Leary: 50% of planned US data centers will not be built Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Bonner Krambu Missoula County Montana Comments March 24, 2026, 3:56 p.m. - Eric Banks Secure. Trace. Recover. The Future of Crypto Asset Recovery with Mighty Hacker Recovery Reply