Portland, OR Data Center - Colocation Facility | EdgeConneX Search Search Home / Americas / Portland, OR POR01, POR02, & POR03 Portland Data Centers Empower Your Edge in Portland, OR The Portland Edge Data Center® (EDC) campus houses two purpose-built, Tier-3 designed facilities, with an additional facility planned, all with superior operational reliability to support cloud, content, network and enterprise customers. AWS Direct Connect , Azure ExpressRoute , and Google Cloud Interconnect cloud on-ramps for direct access to these major cloud services are available locally in our Portland facilities, along with other cloud solutions for enterprises offered through our technology and solution partners. In addition to AWS, Azure, and Google, customers can access leading CSP’s like Microsoft, Oracle, Salesforce, Nutanix, IBM, and more. At EdgeConneX, we work with our customers throughout the full life-cycle, to deliver capacity, connectivity, and visibility, wherever and whenever they need it. Learn more . EdgeConneX Portland POR01 and POR02 data centers earned ENERGY STAR® certification from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. This certification represents proven, verified superior energy performance over a 12-month period. The EdgeConneX Portland data centers have achieved UL 2799 Landfill Diversion certifications. Learn more about Portland in this trends feature: Power Up in Portland Download Data Sheet Request a Virtual Tour Capacity Quote At a Glance Facts and figures you need to know about our Portland, OR data centers. POR01 18,700 sq ft of raised floor for tenant racks POR02 16,850 sq ft raised floor Direct Cloud Services access available Located 14 Miles from downtown Portland Leading Network Providers Our Portland data centers offer a strong mix of leading NSPs, ISPs, and IXs to help you meet all your connectivity requirements. Whether you need to connect locally, within the region, or even globally, we have the right networking solution available to fit your needs. Specifications Space POR01: 39,400 sq ft facility 18,700 sq ft of raised floor for tenant racks POR02: 2 data halls totaling 16,850 sf Phase 1 Data Hall: 8,300 sf Planned Data Hall 2: 8,550 sf POR03: Planned addition to data center campus Within 14 miles from downtown Portland 27 miles from PDX Portland International Airport Customer work space available Space available for secure customer storage WiFi network access and cellphone repeaters/boosters throughout the facility Power POR01: Capable of 20+kW per cabinet Capable of 600+ watts per sq ft POR02: Initial capacity 3MW N+1; planned for 6MW N+1 total Capable of 30+kW per cabinet POR03: Up to 21MW planned Concurrently maintainable power in a minimum of an N+1 configuration to include: PDU UPS Generators Ghost space not required for cooling power dense installations Real-time branch circuit monitoring Cooling Temperature and humidity monitored, controlled and managed to industry standards 30 inch raised/under floor forced air plenum N+1 CRACs located in separate suites, maximizing customer-designated areas Security Multi-stage security containment systems that use PIN and live video authentication Mantraps and strictly enforced protocols regarding entry access 24/7 Color CCTV/video surveillance and >90-day online video storage Interior managed security zones National network operations center for security management 24/7 NOC services Network Building POEs are diverse, with a variety of fiber conduits to physically diverse MMR’s Leading NSP’s and MSO’s are deployed and available, providing direct access to AWS Direct Connect, Microsoft Azure ExpressRoute, and Google Cloud locally in our facility. In addition, we offer solutions from SDN and IX partners like Megaport, PacketFabric, NetFoundry, and NWAX Arelion, Astound, Bandwidth IG, Charter, City of Hillsboro, City of Sherwood, CloudFlare, Cogent, Comcast, Hunter Communications, Hurricane Electric, Lumen, Megaport, NWAX, PacketFabric, Tata, Uprise Fiber, Verizon, WhiteSky, Wholesail, Zayo, Ziplys Interconnection services available Fire Suppression Pre-action, zoned dry-pipe sprinkler systems with zoned maintenance aisles and separate suites Optional Services Remote hands services for break fixes, configuration and troubleshooting EdgeConneX Services: design, build, implement and maintain your equipment infrastructure HIPAA, SOC 2 Type 2, PCI-DSS, ISO 27001 compliant EdgeOS EdgeOS, our next generation data center operating system, provides real-time visibility including ticketing and SLA management for all EdgeConneX locations Learn More About Our Portland Data Centers Use this form to request more information or schedule a data center tour in Portland/Hillsboro. Or, call us at +1.866.304.3217 . Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. First Name * Last Name * Email * Message CAPTCHA download × Close Panel