Claremore Industrial Park | Claremore Industrial and Economic Development Authority Skip to main content Meggie Froman-Knight Executive Director 918-283-8240 meggie@growclaremore.com 104 S Muskogee Ave. Claremore, OK 74017 Claremore Industrial Park C laremore is located 20 miles northeast of Tulsa, Oklahoma , with direct access to multiple federal and state highway systems and access to two Class I railroad lines. Claremore is equidistant, with centrally-located positioning from Los Angeles, Miami, and New York City, meaning the entire country is accessible with short, two-to-three day delivery times. Additionally, our community sits less than 12 miles away from Oklahoma’s “seacoast”, the Tulsa Port of Catoosa, offering its companies true multimodal transportation access. Claremore serves as the Rogers County seat, which a population exceeding 92,000, providing area companies with a robust workforce pool. Additionally, Claremore has convenient access to the Tulsa metropolitan area, home to more than 900,000, further increasing the community's talent pipeline. The CIEDA-owned Claremore Industrial Park is home to approximately 225 acres of flat, greenfield sites for the development of any size project. The proposed sites have paved road access, water, sewer and telecommunications infrastructure in place, allowing for an expedited ownership and construction process. Companies located in the park also benefit from direct access to an on-site rail spur, served by BNSF. All land located within the park is zoned for industrial activities under the City of Claremore’s comprehensive development plan. In conjunction, CIEDA has completed a complete due diligence plan for the industrial park. Click here to see how our sites can accommodate various size projects and facilities. Available Land 200+ Acres 100 plus Acres Shovel Ready 1-30 acre sites 200 plus Acres All Utilities to Site Greenfield Sites Available Phase 1 Environmental Complete Zoned Industrial Dedicated Rail Spur for Industrial Park Central U.S. access to I-44, I-40, & I-35 Click to play video. Video - Claremore Industrial Park- Claremore, Oklahoma Click to play video. Video - Claremore Industrial Park - Available Land - Claremore, Oklahoma Rail Spur The industrial park has BNSF and Union Pacific as its mainline carriers. There is direct access to BNSF via rail spur. Transportation Claremore Regional Airport logo. Tulsa Ports logo. Tulsa International Airport logo. Home to Global Manufacturing Search Form Search by Keyword Search in Titles, Entries and Comments Search in Titles Search in Titles and Entries Exact Phrase Match Search for Any Word Search for All Words Search for Exact Word Search Entries From Any date Today and... This Week and... 1 Month Ago and... 3 Months Ago and... 6 Months Ago and... 1 Year Ago and... Newer Older Sort Results By Date Title Descending Ascending Close