Oracle revealed as tenant of Project Jupiter data center campus in New Mexico - DCD Home News The Cloud & Hybrid Channel Oracle revealed as tenant of Project Jupiter data center campus in New Mexico Site being developed by Stack and BorderPlex Digital Assets will be used for OpenAI January 27, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say Oracle has confirmed it will be the tenant of a major data center campus being developed in Doña Ana County, New Mexico. Dubbed "Project Jupiter," the campus will span 1,400 acres with four data center buildings, micro-grid facilities, natural gas power plants, a battery storage center, and a desalination plant. – Oracle Project Jupiter is being developed by Stack and BorderPlex Digital Assets , with the companies previously announcing that they intend to invest as much as $165 billion in the entire project. According to Oracle, the company will pay more than $600 million in Gross Revenue Tax payments to the State and County, and will also give Doña Ana County $320 million in direct payments to improve schools, infrastructure, and local services, and an additional $50m to help the county fix, build, and repair its water system. An estimated 4,000 construction jobs will be created, and 1,500 permanent jobs once operational, far more than previously suggested. Oracle will occupy the campus once construction is complete, and will use it to host AI infrastructure for OpenAI. DCD has previously speculated that the Stargate campus announced in September 2025 for New Mexico was likely Project Jupiter. Oracle further notes that the data center will be using a closed-loop, non-evaporative cooling system that will not draw water from the local water system. The company wrote: "This means our water tanks only need to be filled once. After our four data center buildings are complete, the buildings’ daily operational water consumption will primarily come from kitchen, restroom, and breakroom use and will be comparable to a typical office building." Regarding an impact on local residents' energy bills, Oracle said the data center will use "its own dedicated microgrid that operates independently of the public grid, ensuring no impact to rate payers. Oracle will pay for the campus’s energy costs, funding new onsite transmission lines, battery storage, and a dedicated substation – maintaining energy reliability and ensuring these costs are not passed on to ratepayers." The project has received backlash, with the Empowerment Congress of Doña Ana County – a nonprofit organization – and two residents suing the County Commission , arguing that the project does not provide enough information and that the body’s decision to approve funding mechanisms and tax rebates for a data center project was marred by procedural and regulatory irregularities. Earlier this month, Project Jupiter developer BorderPlex launched a program to source up to 500MW of renewable generation by 2028 to power its data center portfolio in New Mexico, increasing to 1GW by 2032 . More in Cloud & Hyperscale Accelerating hyperscale deployments in the AI era 10 Dec 2025 Google signs deal with marine CO2 removal firm Ebb for 3,500 tons of carbon removal credits Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 13 Mar 2026 QTS targets two data center campuses in Georgia Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags BorderPlex Digital Assets Dona Ana County New Mexico OpenAI Oracle Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Project Jupiter Stack Stargate Comments