Columbus, OH Colocation Data Centers with AWS Direct Connect Now Available for Pre-Leasing: COL7 and COL8 Scalelogix and Digital Edge Data Centers Columbus Data Centers Overview Columbus Cologix’s data centers are the most connected facilities in Ohio. Cologix ’s Columbus data centers offer an ideal location for primary IT deployments that require 99.999% uptime and network performance. Cologix customers can now utilize the lowest latency onramp to AWS via an Amazon Web Services® Direct Connect node located in our Columbus data center. This direct, private connection enables a secure, high-capacity, high-performance connection to AWS cloud solutions. Reliable, High Performance Connectivity to 45+ network service providers including the Ohio IX Internet Exchange Low Latency Cloud Onramps High speed and ultra-low latency direct connections to 35+ cloud onramps Most Robust, Scalable Ecosystem 99.999% Uptime SLA and top network performance Data Centers Why Columbus Get The Quick Facts Contact Columbus Team Columbus Data Centers COL1 Cologix Interconnection Hub 535 Scherers Court, Columbus, Ohio More on COL1 COL2 Cologix’s Enterprise-Grade Data Center 555 Scherers Court, Columbus, Ohio More on COL2 COL3 State-of-the-Art 160K SQFT, 18+ MW Data Center 585 Scherers Court, Columbus, Ohio More on COL3 COL4 Interconnected Scalelogix Data Center 7500 Alta View, Columbus, Ohio More on COL4 COL5 Unmatched Connectivity in an Industry-Leading Data Center 6787 Green Meadows Drive, Columbus, Ohio More on COL5 COL7 AI-Ready with Regional and Global Connectivity 12017 Duncan Plains Road, Johnstown, OH 43031 More on COL7 COL8 Dedicated Scalelogix Facility in the Connected Midwest 11719 Duncan Plains Road, Johnstown, OH 43031 More on COL8 Why connect with Cologix in Columbus? The Region's Largest Neutral Data Center Cologix is the leading Central Ohio data center provider. COL3 , our 160K SQF T , 18+MW Scalelogix data center, has been awarded the coveted Uptime Institute Tier III Certification of Constructed Facility. The new $130M+ facility is the region’s largest neutral data center and is directly linked to our COL1 and COL2 data centers. Low-Latency Access and Onramps at the Most Densely Connected Data Centers in the Region Cologix’s data centers are the most connected facilities in Ohio, offering connectivity to 45+ network service providers , including the Ohio-IX Internet Exchange. Access to 20+ cloud service providers and direct onramps to Amazon Web Services® Direct Connect and Microsoft® Azure ExpressRoute. Additional access to AWS via Amazon Web Services® Direct Connect node, providing customers low-latency access to AWS US East 2 region. 99.999% Uptime and Network Performance Cologix’s Columbus data centers stand apart from the competition by combining the most robust enterprise-grade data center infrastructure with the most densely connected interconnect site in the region. We offer the utmost in uptime. Even the backups have backups for a fault-tolerant, seamless, end-to-end system. Strategically Located for Disaster Recovery The Cologix Columbus data centers offer an ideal location for primary IT deployments that require 99.999% uptime and network performance. Our facilities are strategically located at the convergence point of the long-haul fiber crossroads and the regional carrier fiber networks in Central Ohio, providing disaster recovery deployments backing up primary sites in Chicago and New York. Columbus Data Center Quick Facts Proximity to more of the U.S. population than any other major city, with 47% of the population within a 10-hour drive Ohio’s largest city and the 15th largest city in the U.S., right behind San Francisco Home to the highest metro concentration of Fortune 1000 companies Ranked in the Top 10 friendliest cities for small business Long-haul fiber crossroads create an ideal alternative location to Chicago and disaster recovery sites Lowest latency onramp to AWS via Amazon Web Services® Direct Connect and Google Cloud Platform Contact Cologix Columbus Jonathan Wray Director, Columbus Operations jonathan.wray@cologix.com sales@cologix.com 1.855.265.6449 Connect to network and cloud service providers in Columbus “Console Connect is expanding its presence and reach across North America, enabling more businesses in the region to access and experience our on-demand networking services. I am pleased to welcome Cologix to the Console Connect ecosystem while growing the availability of our platform in Canada with our first PoP in Montréal.” Michael Glynn, Vice President of Digital Automated Innovation “Cologix’s new peering hub in the Ashburn market will be critical to meet the growing demands of edge cloud traffic…coupled with Zayo’s unique, low latency long-haul network footprint that includes our new route from Columbus to Ashburn, this digital infrastructure will drive the next evolution in carrier and cloud connectivity.” Steve Smith, CEO “We’re pleased to be working with Cologix to open up our first PoP in Western Canada to support data-intensive innovation, real-time collaboration, and creative development in digital industries that thrive on a reliable network.” Art Kazmierczak, Director of Business and Network Development, Arelion “Our collaboration with Cologix allows us to connect customers privately, predictably and securely to deploy and manage their hybrid cloud infrastructures…we’re expanding Microsoft Azure ExpressRoute connections in Vancouver to support the growing market demand for services at the digital edge alongside Cologix’s local interconnection hubs, its dedicated ecosystem and its data center platform.” Ross Ortega, Partner Program Manager