CleanSpark expands into AI data center development with 270 acre acquisition outside Houston, Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel CleanSpark expands into AI data center development with 270 acre acquisition outside Houston, Texas Cryptomine firm expanding to AI data centers with 285MW project October 30, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Cryptomine firm CleanSpark has acquired land outside Houston, Texas, for its first foray into AI data centers. This week, the Nasdaq-listed company announced it had acquired the rights to approximately 271 acres of land in Austin County, Texas, and executed long-term power supply agreements totaling 285MW to support the development of a data center campus to serve AI, cloud, and enterprise workloads. – CleanSpark The company paid for the site in cash and shares. Details on the site weren’t shared, but CleanSpark said the property is on a regional fiber backbone and supported by grid infrastructure. The site is also in close proximity to several natural gas pipelines, which are being evaluated for industrial-scale behind-the-meter generation opportunities. CleanSpark intends to begin site design and development immediately, with energization of more than 200MW expected in the first half of 2027. "This acquisition marks a major milestone in CleanSpark's strategic business evolution," said Matt Schultz, CleanSpark CEO. "Securing power and land at this scale in one of the nation's most attractive markets positions us to meet the accelerating demand for AI compute while continuing to deliver long-term value for our shareholders. We continue to lead in Bitcoin mining, are actively reviewing AI conversion opportunities across our existing portfolio, and have now entered the Texas market with a site purpose-acquired for an AI campus." Describing itself as “America’s Bitcoin Miner,” CleanSpark currently has around 33 Bitcoin mining sites in operation across Wyoming, Tennessee, Mississippi, and Georgia. The company has more than 1GW of capacity under contract and recently announced a pivot to HPC and AI data center development. Earlier this week, CleanSpark announced a partnership with immersion cooling provider Submer, a company that has made its own move into building data centers and launched its own cloud unit . Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 24 Jan 2026 Sponsored Continuous innovation in modular power: The future of data centers with Boreas Technology Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 02 Mar 2026 Engie to acquire UK Power Networks in £10.5bn deal Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Austin County CleanSpark Cryptomine Houston Texas Comments