Sustainable, AI-Ready Data Centers in Dallas Fort Worth | Aligned Skip to content LOCATIONS Aligned Dallas: Engineering the AI Economy in DFW Dallas has emerged as a growing hub for AI and cloud, driven by a strategic central location, robust connectivity, favorable business climate, and skilled workforce. Campus Overview STRATEGY Why Choose Aligned Data Centers in Dallas, TX? Aligned’s flagship campus in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex is also home to our North American headquarters. The region’s pro-business environment and abundant land and power make Dallas an ideal location for mission-critical infrastructure. Abundant Power Access to a competitive energy market and robust power grid for large-scale, high-density deployments. Talent Stacked Dallas boasts one of the largest technology talent pools in the US. data centers Reshaping the Future of Data Centers in Dallas Our Dallas data centers feature Aligned’s innovative air and liquid cooling technologies. Customers can easily transition from air-cooled to liquid-cooled systems, or deploy hybrid cooling within the same data hall. DFW-01 DFW-02 DFW-03 DFW-04 DFW-01 DFW-02 DFW-03 DFW-04 DFW-01 Data Center 2800 Summit Ave, Plano, TX 75074 Campus Overview: 19-acre campus Designed to Tier III standards Concrete slab-on-grade and structured steel 24x7x365 accessibility 100% Uptime SLA Request Details DFW-02 Data Center 2800 Summit Ave, Plano, TX 75074 Campus Overview: 19-acre campus Designed to Tier III standards Concrete slab-on-grade and structured steel 24x7x365 accessibility 100% Uptime SLA Request Details DFW-03 Data Center 3801 Britton Rd. Mansfield, TX Campus Overview: 27-acre campus Designed to Tier III standards Concrete slab-on-grade and structured steel 24x7x365 accessibility 100% Uptime SLA Request Details DFW-04 Data Center 401 North Star Rd Plano, TX 75074 Campus Overview: 44-acre campus Designed to Tier III standards Concrete slab-on-grade and structured steel 24x7x365 accessibility 100% Uptime SLA Request Details THE ALIGNED ADVANTAGE Infrastructure That Scales with You Aligned delivers the high-performance infrastructure our customers need to power their AI and cloud workloads and support the highest-density GPUs. Connectivity and Power Connectivity and Power – 3 MW back-up generators – 2 MW UPS line-ups – N+1 block redundant topology – 500 KVA PDUs – 415V distribution to racks (A+B distribution) – 100% Uptime SLA – Multiple network carriers in proximity to site Cooling Cooling – Delta3™ air cooling arrays in dedicated mechanical galleries – Secondary loops with valves and taps for DeltaFlow~ liquid cooling to support the highest-density GPU requirements – Minimum N+1 redundancy – Closed-loop chilled water system design Sustainability and Compliance Sustainability and Compliance -100% renewable power – Ultra-efficient cooling design – Near-zero Water Utilization Efficiency (WUE) based on closed-loop chilled water system design – eCarbon tracking – Targeting carbon-neutral footprint by 2040 – Certified for SOC 2 Type 2, PCI DSS, HIPAA, HITECH, NIST 800-53, and ISO 27001 Security and Fire Protection Security and Fire Protection – 5-layer security approach – 24x7x365 physical security staff onsite – Fixed & PTZ cameras covering facility interior and exterior – Very Early Smoke Detection Apparatus (VESDA) – Dual interlocking pre-action zoned fire protection Contact Ready to Expand your Capacity in Dallas? Tell us about your company and our team will reach out to you. " * " indicates required fields Δ URL This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Full Name * Company * Title * Business Email * About Your Company and Requirements * * I agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions Manage Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept Deny View preferences Save preferences View preferences {title} {title} {title} Manage consent