St. Lawrence County Planning Board approves conversion of Sears store into data center - DCD Home News North America St. Lawrence County Planning Board approves conversion of Sears store into data center The proposed facility could be anything from a regular data center to a cryptocurrency mining operation August 20, 2020 By Alex Alley Have your say The St. Lawrence County Planning Board has approved a proposal to convert a former Sears store in the St. Lawrence Centre mall into a data center. According to the Watertown Daily Times (GovTech) , the Massena, St. Lawrence County, New York data center proposal comes from investment company Tareo Capital Management. The plan was initially submitted to the Massena Planning Board, which oversees the town in which the mall resides. This was then sent to the St Lawrence County Planning Board and returned to Massena, approved, but with a query on whether it would cause any power issues for other businesses. The Massena Planning Board is meeting today (Aug 20) to decide on the proposal. Crypto mall The St. Lawrence Centre mall – Bill Kingston/Cornwall Newswatch The details about the site have not revealed by Tareo other than a reference to the facility being an “electronic data processing center.” St. Lawrence County Planning Office Deputy Director Jason Pfotenhauer told the county’s Planning Board: “We’ve heard a lot about data centers in the past. I don’t know for sure if this is a Bitcoin mining data center or a data processing data center.” According to Pfotenhauer, there would be no alterations to the exterior of the space and no partitions added to the interior. “There’s no impact from an exterior standpoint. It does involve site plan approval, but there’s not much site plan to it,” he said. Since the site plan was so “minimal,” the county’s Planning Office proposed sending it back to the Massena Planning Board. Pfotenhauer told the Board that he didn’t know whether the site’s function would prove to be “problematic” due to the high power consumption of cryptocurrency operations. But, according to the Watertown Daily Times, he suggested there might still be enough power for the new data center. Further reading 14 Jul 2020 York County, Virginia, approves grants for $60m T-Rex data center 28 Jan 2020 Developer buys New York coal plant for data center project 13 Jul 2020 Amazon plans 1.75 million square foot data center near Dulles International Airport Tags New York St Lawrence Center Massena Planning Board St. Lawrence County Planning Board Sears Tareo Capital Management St Lawrence County Jason Pfotenhauer Comments