UK's Deep Green withdraws proposals for data center project in Michigan - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel UK's Deep Green withdraws proposals for data center project in Michigan Company drops project ahead of city council vote this week April 07, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say UK data center firm Deep Green has withdrawn plans to develop a facility in Michigan. The company first announced plans to develop a $120 million, 24MW data center in Lansing last year . The firm was set to partner with the municipally-owned Lansing Board of Water & Light (BWL) to supply free, carbon-neutral heat directly into BWL’s hot water system. Construction on DC06 was expected to begin in the spring of 2026. – Deep Green However, Deep Green has withdrawn its application ahead of a planned city council meeting this week. Deep Green told local press : "Tonight's Lansing City Council meeting will not include a vote on our proposed data center, and we want to be clear: our commitment to building data centers the right way has never been stronger. We are confident that Michigan is a place that values responsible development, and we continue to work with local partners and communities in the region.” Outlets, including Fox , published a statement from Lansing Mayor Andy Schor: “Deep Green has contacted the City to formally withdraw their request to buy the city parking lots and to rezone that property for a data center. I am also withdrawing the buy/sell agreement and the city request for rezoning of these parcels. As such, the City Council will no longer be considering these requests.” He continued: “While I was encouraged about new and sustained revenues to the City of Lansing for services such as housing, the fire department, neighborhoods, and aesthetics, I also have heard the concerns raised by some members of the Lansing public.” Though city staff had recommended approval, the city planning commission delayed its initial vote before v oting in December to recommend that the city sell land parcels to Deep Green while recommending against a rezoning request to allow for the construction. Deep Green was publishing blog posts outlining the benefits of the proposed project as recently as last week, calling on Lansing community and council members to review the project’s emissions analysis ahead of the since-abandoned vote. Lansing Board of Water & Light (BWL) General Manager Dick Peffley also issued a statement: “We believe in the benefits this project would bring to the City of Lansing and our customers, including the benefit to our future hot water customers and related emissions reductions, as well as the annual $120,000 donation to Pennies for Power to help customers who are struggling.” Deep Green traditionally locates high-performance computing servers at sites where their heat can be fully used, offering that heat for free to users, including swimming pools. The company has also moved into developing full buildings. UK utility Octopus Energy is an investor in the firm, which aims to deploy 300MW of distributed capacity across Europe and the US. The company launched in 2023 , deploying hardware at a leisure center in Exmouth, Devon. Deep Green has previously said it was gearing up to deploy 500kW of hardware next door to the York Stadium Leisure Complex in Huntingdon, which would be used to heat the swimming pool. A 1.1MW DG03 facility was live in Swindon but is no longer listed on the company’s website. Deep Green has a 400kW site in development in Manchester (DG01). Another 20MW project is listed on the company’s website as in planning around Lincoln. A 5MW facility is planned in Bradford . UK cloud provider Civo and post-production firm Dirty Looks are known customers of Deep Green. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 13 Feb 2026 Jericho, Comstock to form JV to develop AI data centers in Oklahoma Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in Colocation & Wholesale NTT Global Data Centers Guide to India data center expansion 15 Jan 2026 Ascenty signs 110MW renewable energy supply deal with Casa dos Ventos in Brazil 24 Mar 2026 Developer Krambu looks to build AI data center in Missoula County, Montana Tags Deep Green Ingham County Lansing Lansing Board of Water & Light Michigan Comments