Hermantown data center moves forward despite opposition | MPR News Skip to Main Content Skip to audio player to listen live Create a Free MPR news profile for you Sign up Close First Name Last Name Email Address Create User Name Create Password * Password must be at least 8 characters and contain one uppercase letter, one lowercase letter, one number and one symbol. Create Account Already have an account? Sign in By submitting, you consent that you are at least 18 years of age and to receive information about MPR's or APMG entities' programs and offerings. The personally identifying information you provide will not be sold, shared, or used for purposes other than to communicate with you about MPR, APMG entities, and its sponsors. You may opt-out at any time clicking the unsubscribe link at the bottom of any email communication. View our Privacy Policy . Welcome back to news for you Sign in to your profile Close Username Password Forgot Password? Sign in New to MPR News? Sign up Welcome back to news for you Reset Password Close Enter the username on file and we'll send you a code to reset your password. Username submit request Still require assistance or not sure what your User Name is? Contact us Welcome back to news for you Email Verification A verification code has been emailed to Verification code Confirm your account Still awaiting the code? Send another People watch the Hermantown City Council hear public comment on a zoning change for a proposed data center during a meeting on Monday night. Some people weren't allowed to enter the building because it was at capacity. Dan Kraker | MPR News Play Listen Hermantown data center moves forward despite opposition Create an account or log in to save stories. Log in Thanks for liking this story! We have added it to a list of your favorite stories. Show me! Save Share X (twitter.com) Facebook Mail Researchers perplexed by growing numbers of 'zombie' fish deep in Lake Superior Ceremony provides prayer, healing for Twin Cities waterway on Earth Day State climatologist calls for more weather nerds to join rain, hail and snow network Can eco-friendly Minnesota manufacturers gain an edge amid high gas prices? News you can use in your inbox When it comes to staying informed in Minnesota, our newsletters overdeliver. Sign-up now for headlines, breaking news, hometown stories, weather and much more. Delivered weekday mornings. Subscribe Terms Program Schedule Station Directory Providing Support for MPR. Learn More