DCGA approves $45.6M sale of Dauphin Highlands Golf Course to build data center | fox43.com Breaking News More ( ) » Dauphin County Dauphin Highlands Golf Course to be sold for $45.6 million The Dauphin County General Authority approved the sale of Dauphin Highlands Golf Course with plans to develop a data center on the site. To stream FOX43 on your phone, you need the FOX43 app. Download the FOX43 app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video HARRISBURG, Pa. — The Dauphin County General Authority (DCGA) officially voted on Wednesday, Aug. 20 to approve a $45.6 million sale of Dauphin Highlands Golf Course in Swatara Township, according to a press release. DCGA members voted to execute the Purchase Sales Agreement (PSA) with Harrisburg I, LLC, the purchasing entity formed by Provident Realty in Dallas, TX, which will take command of the property. "The transactions is expected to deliver significant benefits to Dauphin County residents, especially those in Swatara Township and the Central Dauphin School District," the press release stated. During the past few monthly meetings, the DCGA disclosed that it has received six responses to its Request for Proposal form from groups looking to purchase the property , with Provident Realty being the one that was selected. Residents who attended Wednesday's meeting criticized the board for their vote, saying that a data center would negatively impact homeowners who live next to Dauphin Highlands. “These people are going to have to contend with the noise, the water consumption, and the high utility costs that will probably be associated with it," said Zoe Loftus, who attended the meeting. Edmund Cortez, who is a 10-year member of the golf course, said he was disappointed by the vote—adding many golfers were hoping that the general authority wouldn’t move forward with the sale. “This is one of the best public golf courses in the area," said Cortez. "It’s been entertaining not only adults and retirees, but also young people and people coming from neighboring states.” The sale includes land located in both Swatara Township and Steelton, the DCGA said. Proceeds would allow the DCGA to pay off the course's $13 million debt. The authority has been divesting its nonperforming assets for the last 15 years. Board Chairperson Barabara Zemlock said that the golf course had consistently operated at a deficit and emphasized that the sale would bring long-term benefits to county residents. "Over the past year, we received multiple unsolicited offers to develop data centers on this property," said Zemlock. "Issuing an RFP gave us the chance to fully evaluate the land's market value. Harrisburg I, LLC's proposal is approximately ten times higher than the recorded value of the land." Zemlock additionally stressed how even though the sale was approved, Harrisburg I, LLC will oversee all aspects of the proposed development. "This is only the first step," said Zemlock. "Many conditions still need to be met before either side can finalize the transaction." In the meantime, the DCGA will continue operating the Dauphin Highlands Gold Course, which it has owned since 1993. The course will continue its operation until the tentative date to close the sale, which is Dec. 31, 2027, the DCGA said. Back when the proposals were submitted on May 21 , neighbors and golf club members voiced concerns and frustrations about the possible sale. Joseph Donato, who lives across from the golf course, was worried that Swatara Township would not benefit from a data center. “How many people are going to be working here? Not a whole lot," said Donato. "I guess somebody to supervise to make sure the machines are running. So, it’s not creating a tremendous amount of jobs for the community.” The DCGA also owns 19.11 acres at 1101 S. Front Street in Harrisburg, home to the Riverfront Office Center and PennDOT services, as well as five magisterial district judge offices. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out