1,600-acre data center approved by local authorities in Forsyth, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 1,600-acre data center approved by local authorities in Forsyth, Georgia Developer is CBRE-owned Trammell Crow Company February 04, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say A data center spanning 1,600 acres has been approved for construction by the city council of Forsyth, Georgia, which voted 5-1 in favor of the project on Monday. According to a Developments of Regional Impact application filed last November , the campus, located along Johnsonville Road, Smith Road, and Collier Road west of I-75, will span 12 million sq ft (1.1m sqm) at completion. – Google Maps CBRE-owned Trammell Crow Company is the main backer of the project, and it will work with local timber firm H&H, which currently owns the land. Previous reports show that development on the project could go on until 2037, costing around $8.4 billion. Details about the facility’s capacity are sparse. Opposition to the data center was voiced during Monday’s meeting. Local residents expressed concern about the campus’ potential impact on the environment and the speed with which the planning proceedings had occurred, whilst city officials argued that the tax revenue generated by the data center was too important to be passed up. Forsyth is a city in and the county seat of Monroe County, some 60 miles south of Atlanta. Atlanta and its surrounding areas have traditionally been a Tier 2 market, but increased demand for data centers has resulted in a surge of data center proposals. It was reported last November that powered land developer Cloverleaf Infrastructure was eyeing a potential 200-acre campus in Monroe County. Google also purchased a 950-acre land parcel in the county last October . More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 31 Mar 2026 Modular data centers could be attached to gas pipelines and use excess pressure for power and cooling Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection Preventing multimillion dollar data center losses through reporting 12 Nov 2025 200MW data center campus proposed in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities Tags CBRE Collier Road Forsyth Georgia Johnsonville Road Monroe County Smith Road Trammell Crow Company Comments