PowerHouse plans 400MW data center campus in Louisville, Kentucky - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel PowerHouse plans 400MW data center campus in Louisville, Kentucky First phase due live in 2026 January 17, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say US data center firm PowerHouse is expanding into Kentucky. AREP-owned PowerHouse this week revealed plans for a 400MW data center campus in Louisville alongside real estate firm Poe Companies. PowerHouse and Poe have secured an initial power capacity of 335MW for the campus with near-term expansion of up to 402MW. Construction on the 154-acre PowerHouse Louisville site is due to start in 2025, with the first building and 130MW of capacity set to be available in October 2026. Poe's site plans for the PowerHouse Louisville campus – Poe Companies A site plan on Poe’s website suggests up to seven two-story buildings could be developed – though PowerHouse’s site says up to six buildings are planned that could total 1.8 million sq ft (167,225 sqm). PowerHouse’s website suggests the campus is along Camp Ground Road close to the 640MW natural gas-powered Cane Run Generating Station. "Louisville offers everything hyperscale users need – immediate and reliable power at very attractive rates, water, connectivity, and a business environment that encourages more hyperscale growth in the region," said Doug Fleit, co-founder and CEO of PowerHouse. "The experience of working with Louisville Gas and Electric (LG&E), the utility serving the site, has been a model for other utilities in the country to follow as well as a testament to Poe Companies' relationships in the community and the market." Founded in 1989, Poe develops multifamily, industrial, and hospitality properties across the US. This project is the company’s first data center development. "Poe Companies is honored to partner with PowerHouse Data Centers, a truly world-class data center developer, on this transformative project," added Steve Poe, CEO of Poe Companies. "Our combined expertise and shared vision for innovation continues to position Louisville as a key hub for cutting-edge digital infrastructure." The power supply will be supported by a new switch station to be built by LG&E and completed in September 2026, along with a dedicated on-site substation. "We are proud to serve Kentucky's first hyperscale data center," said John R. Crockett, president of LG&E and KU and chief business development officer for PPL Corporation. "This groundbreaking project will be historic for Kentucky and a continuation of new economic announcements happening throughout the Commonwealth." Kentucky recently approved a 50-year tax-exempt program for data center projects in Jefferson County. "This new data center will create thousands of good-paying jobs here in Louisville," said Louisville Mayor Craig Greenberg. "As the need for data centers grows, Louisville is perfectly positioned to meet the demands of the tech sector." Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 29 Oct 2025 Aston Martin F1 Team plans new data center at Silverstone, UK, race track Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 11 Feb 2026 Data center developer Stack to expand Hillsboro campus by 121MW Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags LG&E Cane Run Generating Station Kentucky PowerHouse Data Centers PowerHouse Jefferson County Louisville Poe Companies Louisville Gas and Electric Comments