CoreWeave plans $6bn data center in Lancaster, Pennsylvania - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel CoreWeave plans $6bn data center in Lancaster, Pennsylvania Will have up to 300MW of IT capacity July 15, 2025 By Georgia Butler Have your say AI cloud firm CoreWeave has revealed plans to invest up to $6 billion in developing a data center in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. The data center will have an initial 100MW of IT capacity, though it will have the potential to scale up to 300MW, and will be "purpose-built" for AI use cases. 1375 Harrisburg Pike – Google Maps GPU cloud provider CoreWeave will be the sole tenant of the site, with the data center to be co-developed by Chirisa Technology Parks and Machine Investment Group. Around 600 skilled jobs are expected to be needed during the build phase, and around 70 full-time technical and operational roles at launch, scaling to 175 over time. The size of the data center, and its exact planned location, have not been shared. However, in February 2025 , Machine Investment Group purchased two former printing press facilities in Lancaster. It was said at the time that the two separate locations, totaling more than two million square feet (185,806 sqm) across 144 acres in Lancaster County, were set to be redeveloped into data centers focused on artificial intelligence and cloud computing. The sites purchased were 216 Greenfield Road with 78 acres across two contiguous parcels and 1.1 million square feet (102,193 sqm) of industrial and manufacturing building spaces, and the 1375 Harrisburg Pike property, which sits on 66 acres, also across two contiguous parcels with an 825,000-square-foot (76,645 sqm) industrial and manufacturing building. DCD has asked CoreWeave if this is the same project. “The demand for high-performance AI compute is relentless, and CoreWeave is scaling a cloud purpose-built for AI to meet it and strengthen US leadership,” said Michael Intrator, co-founder, chairman of the board, and CEO of CoreWeave. “This data center will accelerate innovation and drive economic growth across the region. We look forward to working with leaders like Senator McCormick and Governor Shapiro to ensure this investment delivers meaningful, lasting impact.” “Pennsylvania is competing again and bringing in billions of dollars in new investment to the Commonwealth to support our technology sector, and CoreWeave’s $6 billion investment will continue to build on that work — creating good-paying jobs as Pennsylvania workers build, maintain, and operate a new AI data center in Lancaster County,” said Governor Josh Shapiro. “My Administration is leading the way on safe, responsible, and effective use of artificial intelligence – while keeping people at the center of Pennsylvania’s AI strategy. We are ensuring our Commonwealth is open to the major investments like this one from CoreWeave by investing in our workforce, building out more energy resources, securing funding for site development, speeding up the Commonwealth’s permitting, licensing, and certification processes, and working to make sure Pennsylvania continues to be a national energy leader." Co-developer Chirisa previously teamed up with PowerHouse and asset manager Blue Owl for a joint venture (JV) dedicated to developing data centers for CoreWeave. Among the future projects listed under that JV was a Pennsylvania location, though it is unclear if this newly announced data center is part of that. DCD has reached out to CoreWeave for clarification. Earlier this month, CoreWeave announced it would be acquiring data center developer Core Scientific, of which it is the largest customer, for $9 billion . CoreWeave currently operates 33 AI data centers, 28 of which are located in the US. The company, as well as self-building facilities, also leases space from Lincoln, Chirisa , Flexential , TierPoint, Digital Realty, Switch, DataBank , Galaxy , and Applied Digital . Lancaster is located West of Philadelphia, one of Pennsylvania's largest data center markets after Pittsburgh. Lumen operates a data center in Lancaster. More in Construction & Site Selection North America data center report: Year-end 2025 09 Feb 2026 Three year data center moratorium considered in New York State Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in Cloud & Hyperscale Accelerating hyperscale deployments in the AI era 29 Jan 2026 New AI Growth Zone in North Lanarkshire, Scotland, could unlock 500MW of data center capacity Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control Tags Chirisa Investments Chirisa Technology Parks CoreWeave Lancaster Lancaster County Machine Investment Group Pennsylvania Comments