Official Website of East Windsor Township, New Jersey - QTS Data Center Celebrates Milestone QTS Data Center Celebrates Milestone Published on November 19, 2024 FOR RELEASE: November 19, 2024 QTS DATA CENTERS CELEBRATES TOPPING OUT MILESTONE ON NEW CONSTRUCTION IN EAST WINDSOR TOWNSHIP EAST WINDSOR TOWNSHIP. Mayor Janice S. Mironov and Deputy Mayor David Russell and Council Members Johnnie Whittington and John Zoller joined QTS executives and construction workers for the “Topping Out” milestone at the QTS Data Center in East Windsor Township. The event marked the installation of the final metal beam on the first stage of the QTS multi-phase upgrade and expansion of its East Windsor complex on Princeton Hightstown Road. QTS is a leading provider of data center solutions whose goal is to deliver secure, compliant infrastructure solutions, enhanced connectivity and outstanding service to government entities and high-tech business platforms. Network providers served by QTS include AT&T, Comcast, Crown Castle and Verizon Business. Mayor Mironov stated, “The Township is excited that QTS, a significant global company, is upgrading and expanding in our Township along the growing Route 571 high-tech and pharmaceutical corridor in East Windsor. QTS, prominently located on the former McGraw-Hill site, brings an exciting modern business dynamic to our community and the many other high-tech companies that call East Windsor home.” The Topping Out event signifies a milestone in the construction phase of the project and also served as an employee appreciation luncheon to honor as many of the tradespeople as possible who have contributed to the project. In lieu of the traditional placing of the last beam at the peak of a newly constructed structure, the ceremony consisted of the signing of a symbolic beam that will be used in the new lobby display. QTS Data Centers, housed on a 194-acre campus formerly occupied by McGraw-Hill, plans for 554,000 square feet of total space in newer modernized facilities. HITT Contracting Inc. is performing the demolition and upgrading work for the facility. QTS projects that the first phase of the project will be ready for operation in February 2025, with the completion scheduled for April 2025, followed by further phases. More: Home News Business News