Equinix launches data center in San Jose, California - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Equinix launches data center in San Jose, California First facility powered under a partnership between San Jose and PG&E January 22, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say US colo giant Equinix has launched a new data center in San Jose, California. Equinix this week energized its SV12x facility, the first to do so under a new partnership between the city of San Jose and utility PG&E. – Arquelle Shaw | Equinix The city and the utility partnered last year to guarantee power delivery for data centers. The deal promised infrastructure and speed improvements at a time when the city was considering forming its own municipal utility. Equinix Americas president Arquelle Shaw noted the opening this week on LinkedIn , saying the collaboration with the City and PG&E matters “so much” because reliable energy access is “a community investment as much as it is a technological one.” SV12x is located at Equinix’s campus at 123 Great Oaks Blvd alongside four existing Equinix International Business Exchange (IBX) data centers. The 20MW, 82,000 sq ft (7,618 sqm) facility takes the campus to 40MW. PG&E expanded capacity at its Santa Teresa substation in order to serve the new facility, with upgrades paid for by Equinix. The two-story facility is the company’s first in California under its xScale hyperscale-focused moniker. Equinix first partnered with GIC in October 2019 to develop hyperscale facilities under the xScale label. Plans for a $600 million xScale facility in Silicon Valley were announced in April 2024 alongside PGIM. More are planned across the US alongside GIC and CPP. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: The New Physics of US Data Center Infrastructure 18 Mar 2026 Approval for 147MW Slough data center delayed Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 20 Mar 2026 Supermicro cofounder resigns from board following China GPU smuggling charge, shares down 33% Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 123 Great Oaks Blvd California Equinix PG&E SV12x San Jose San José Comments