What are the next steps for Menomonie's proposed data center after council vote? | News | wqow.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close 18 News Download Our Apps 18 Storm Track Weather Submit a News Tip Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Sam Fristed Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save We're learning what happens next after the Menomonie City Council voted to annex and redevelop over 300 acres of land at last night's meeting. MENOMONIE (WQOW) - We're learning what happens next after the Menomonie City Council voted to annex and redevelop over 300 acres of land at last night's meeting. The land is located between 650th and 690th Avenue and was owned by the town of Red Cedar. Development company Balloonist LLC filed the rezoning request that intends to use the land for a data center. They provided renderings of what the facility would look like including two data halls, an office building and a warehouse. While the city council approved the rezoning and annexation, it does not guarantee a data center will be built. A formal proposal must still be submitted and city council would need to approve it. Public Works Director David Schofield explained if the city does move forward with the intended use, it would still be a few years before any construction would begin. "At this point they have not discussed any desire to start construction in 2026. It would probably be 2027 at the earliest construction schedule," he said. One concern among residents was the excessive water usage. Schofield said the data center would use about 75,000 gallons of water per day but the city would be able to handle the load. Residents have also voiced concerns about environmental impacts. Schofield explained an environmental study would be conducted during the development process. You can find additional coverage of the data center here. Have a story idea? Let us know here Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Sam Fristed Daybreak Anchor Sam Fristed joined the WQOW team in February of 2023. He attended the University of Wisconsin-River Falls where he graduated with a degree in journalism. Author email Follow Sam Fristed More From News 18 News Why stretch of I-94 in Eau Claire County is susceptible to crashes Updated Aug 24, 2022 Pro Sports MLB lockout: what we know -- a timeline Updated Mar 2, 2022 News Man on sex offender registry to live in Chippewa Falls Updated Mar 27, 2024 News WATCH LIVE 1:30 p.m.: Gov. Evers 1st press conference since Supreme Court ruling May 14, 2020 News How cities across the US are preparing for Trump’s immigration crackdown Jan 21, 2025 Wake Up Wisconsin MUST SEE: Female Marine Corps veteran turns 100 Jul 20, 2018 Recommended for you © Copyright 2026 Allen Media Broadcasting , 5545 Hwy 93 Eau Claire, WI | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital .