AI computing facility planned in Wisconsin Rapids MONEY Developer plans $200 million AI computing facility in Wisconsin Rapids. What we know so far The development will be on a 15-acre parcel owned by Consolidated Water Power Company, west of State 34. Here's what we know about the project so far Caitlin Shuda Wisconsin Rapids Daily Tribune Updated Jan. 27, 2025, 2:04 p.m. CT WISCONSIN RAPIDS – A developer has plans to build an artificial intelligence computing facility in Wisconsin Rapids. According to a press release from Digital Power Optimization Inc. on PR Newswire, the developer and operator of power-dense data centers has secured a land lease with Consolidated Water Power Company, a subsidiary of Billerud, and plans to develop a $200 million facility capable of up to 20 megawatts of AI computing. Andrew Webber, the founder and CEO of Digital Power Optimization, told a Daily Tribune reporter Monday afternoon the development will be a "power-dense data center" designed for artificial intelligence computing operations. The partnership with CWPCo includes a land lease for up to 50 years, interconnection rights to an existing and energized substation and access to a power supply. CWPCo operates 32 megawatts of hydroelectric power within its system. Mayor Matt Zacher confirmed to a Daily Tribune reporter Monday morning the development will be on a 15-acre parcel owned by CWPCo west of State 34, close to the Wisconsin Water Quality Center purchased by ND Paper last year. The site where DPO plans to build its facility is adjacent to 220 acres of land that is still available for redevelopment that was formerly part of the paper mill property. Webber told the Daily Tribune DPO will lease about 6 acres of vacant land of the 15-acre parcel owned by CWPCo. Webber clarified the development is not on the Billerud paper mill site. Kyle Kearns, the city’s director of community development, told a Daily Tribune reporter Monday morning DPO reached out about a year and a half ago, looking at CWPCo's available power for opportunities to use for AI. Kearns said CWPCo had powered the entire paper mill, and without the facility running in its full capacity, there has been a lot of excess power available. Running artificial intelligence demands a lot of power, Kearns said, so companies involved with AI are looking at where they can buy a lot of power, especially if more affordable power is available. Renewable and green power like the hydroelectric power from CWPCo is also a benefit, as well, so Wisconsin Rapids was a good option for DPO, Kearns said. Webber said DPO works with a number of power companies, including regulated utilities, power cooperatives, independent power producers, and other companies, and DPO has multiple other projects around the country in various stages of pre-development. As DPO discussed the potential facility with CWPCo leaders, Webber said the company found the situation to be a win-win. The partnership allows DPO to grow its data centers while paying to use CWPCo's system. The partnership will also allow CWPCo to maintain its hydroelectric projects and cover some fixed costs, as well, Webber said. Kearns said most of the $200 million investment will be toward the computers inside the building rather than the cost of construction. Renderings show plans for a few small buildings to be built in pods with additional infrastructure like backup generators, he said. When could construction start? Webber told the Daily Tribune once construction plans are complete and building permits are secured, DPO plans to start construction later this year with "initial energization" starting in 2026. How many people will this project employ? On the construction end, Webber said DPO expects to create more than 100 on-site jobs between 2025 and 2026. Many of those positions will include electricians and other tradespeople, he said. Long-term, Webber said he expects to create 12-20 full-time employees at the facility when it's open. Jobs will include operations, maintenance, security and IT management, he said. What will construction look like? Webber said the construction process will look more like an assembly than typical building construction, as DPO is planning to use modular facilities. While the final product could vary from the project rendering, Webber said it shows a good approximation of its size. Most of the space will be taken up by external electrical and cooling infrastructure, he said. How much power will the data center use? Webber told the Daily Tribune the data center will consume about 20 megawatts of power at its peak, including its cooling and ancillary functions. Most facilities do not operate at 100% capacity around the clock, Webber said. The amount of energy is lower than most industrial companies, including pulp processors like the ND Paper mill in Biron, use more power, he said. Webber said based on data from the U.S. Energy Information Administration , if DPO runs on average at 70% of its maximum capacity, the facility could be equivalent of about 11,700 homes. Based on CWPCo's system and focus, Webber said DPO would account for a minority of CWPCo's total demand, Webber said. What could this mean for Wisconsin Rapids? Zacher told the Daily Tribune the most exciting part of this development is the amount of investment DPO will be putting into the community, and this deal will help open doors for more private entities to look at Wisconsin Rapids for development. The paper mill in Wisconsin Rapids holds 130 years of the city's history , first as Consolidated Papers Inc., then Stora Enso Oyj, NewPage Corp., Verso Paper Corp., and most recently, Billerud. Verso idled production in June 2020, continuing its converting operations, but leaving more than 900 employees without a job. In March 2022, Verso merged with Billerud, a Sweden-based company that has continued converting operations since. In March 2024, Billerud announced it would sell the idled mill and related assets to Capital Recovery Group, while reaffirming its commitment to owning and operating the converting facility in the city. In April 2024, PCR Rapids − a group made up of Capital Recovery Group, Rabin Worldwide and PPL Group − announced it would start finding parties interested in buying the entire mill site or select portions. In September 2024, city officials issued a razing and demolition permit for the remaining portions of the Wisconsin Rapids paper mill property, including 220 acres that would be ready for redevelopment following demolition. Crews began demolishing portions of the property at the end of 2024 and will ramp up the majority of the project this year. As of Jan. 15 , city leaders said no major redevelopment plans had been secured and property owners were still marketing the area for redevelopment. Zacher said the city knew about the potential DPO deal with CWPCo and was encouraging but had no power in securing the project. While the city has little power when it comes to private entities working out deals for development, Zacher said he would like to see a mix of diverse businesses in the area. The entire paper mill property has started shifting more into an industrial complex than just one industry, he said. Sonoco has invested in its base mill, Billerud has continued investing in its converting operations, and ND Paper has invested in wastewater treatment in the area. Zacher said he hopes DPO's development will help act as a catalyst to attract other businesses and industries to the area. What does this mean for the future of AI? Webber said digital computing output like that for artificial intelligence needs physical infrastructure. "We view this as a facility designed to accommodate the next generation of the critical technological advancement which will benefit society in many ways, some of which we can't yet predict," he said. Who is involved? Digital Power Optimization Inc., a privately-held New York-based company, was formed in 2020 to help power