$2.1bn data center campus proposed in Archbald, Pennsylvania - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel $2.1bn data center campus proposed in Archbald, Pennsylvania Not set to be approved until late 2025, but will feature 14 data centers if given the go-ahead March 08, 2025 By Niva Yadav Have your say An unnamed developer plans to build a $2.1 billion data center campus in Archbald, Pennsylvania. – Google Maps Located on 400 acres alongside Business Route 6 and Wildcat Road, the site was previously slated for a large housing development, as reported by the Times-Tribune . Dubbed the Wildcat Ridge AI Data Center Campus, the project is expected to span around 17.2 million sq ft (1.6 million sqm), featuring 14 three-story data centers. Each data center is expected to span 379,500 sq ft (35,257 sqm). The campus is located within proximity to a PPL substation but would have its own substation on the property. Other details have not yet been shared. The plans have been submitted by engineering firm LaBella Associates on behalf of the developer. Pine Line Inc. is a partial property owner. Pine Line sold some of the land to Archbald Ventures last year but still retains around 240 acres of the western portion. Archbald Ventures shared an address with real estate company Trodale Developers. Trodale Developers had initially filed to build the Archibald Hills housing development before the plans were replaced with a data center campus. The unnamed developer is now asking for the land to be rezoned for industrial use and will buy out Pine Line’s share of the property. A recommendation is set to be made to the council in around three months. The council will then vote on the zoning amendment. The council is not expected to vote until Q3 or Q4 of 2025. The borough of Archbald is located in the north of Pennsylvania. Whilst Pittsburgh and Philadelphia have proved popular data center markets, the northern portion of the state is only home to AWS and Loop Internet in Wilkes Barres, some 30 miles away from Archbald. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 19 Mar 2026 Sponsored Pushing the frontiers of data center innovation Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 03 Feb 2026 Aligned looks to Pennsylvania, eyes two natural gas-powered facilities outside Pittsburgh Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Archbald Archbald Ventures LaBella Associates Lackawanna County Pennsylvania Pine Line Inc. Trodale Developers Wildcat Ridge AI Data Center Campus Wildcat Road Comments