Senate data center hearing largely touts benefits – Wilkes-Barre Citizens' Voice Skip to content Community members gather at Valley View High School to listen to the roundtable discussion regarding proposed data center development projects in the area on Monday, Aug. 11, 2025. (REBECCA PARTICKA/STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER) By Frank Lesnefsky | flesnefsky@scrantontimes.com | The Times-Tribune PUBLISHED: August 11, 2025 at 3:47 PM EDT | UPDATED: August 19, 2025 at 6:25 PM EDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... ARCHBALD — At least 200 concerned residents filled the Valley View High School auditorium Monday afternoon for a state Senate hearing on data centers, where a panel of experts largely touted the benefits of the rapidly growing, artificial intelligence-fueled industry rushing to build sprawling facilities throughout Northeast Pennsylvania. Addressing the large crowd gathered midday Monday at the Valley View High School — a school district with the most data center proposals in Northeast Pennsylvania at five across its three towns — a panel of experts from across disciplines testified for just over three hours during a Senate Majority Policy Committee hearing, chaired by state Sen. Rosemary Brown, R-40, Middle Smithfield Twp., and state Sen. Dave Argall, R-29, Rush Twp., the chairman of the Senate Majority Policy Committee whose whose district encompasses Schuylkill, Carbon and southern Luzerne counties. Community members listen and take notes during the roundtable discussion regarding proposed data center developments at Valley View High School in Archbald on Monday, Aug. 11, 2025. (REBECCA PARTICKA/STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER) Senator Rosemary Brown speaks about data centers during the roundtable discussion held by the Senate Majority Policy Committee at Valley View High School in Archbald on Monday, Aug. 11, 2025. (REBECCA PARTICKA/STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER) (Left to right) Pennsylvania Chamber of Business and Industry’s director of of government affairs Neal Lesher, president and CEO of Team Pennsylvania Abby Smith, president and CEO of Penn’s Northeast John Aug.ine, Amazon Web Services Public Policy’s senior manager Merle Madrid during the roundtable discussion held by the Senate Majority Policy Committee at Valley View High School in Archbald on Monday, Aug. 11, 2025. (REBECCA PARTICKA/STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER) Show Caption 1 of 3 Community members listen and take notes during the roundtable discussion regarding proposed data center developments at Valley View High School in Archbald on Monday, Aug. 11, 2025. (REBECCA PARTICKA/STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER) Expand There are at least nine data center projects proposed across Lackawanna and Luzerne counties with three in Archbald and one project each proposed in: Blakely, Jessup, Clifton and Covington townships, Hazle Twp., Salem Twp. tapping into a nuclear power plant and Sugarloaf Twp. Argall and Brown, who requested the hearing and solicited written questions from constituents, opened with remarks emphasizing the need for information on data centers. The hearing was neither for nor against data centers, but rather about education and uncovering updated factual information, Brown said. “At the very core of this hearing is the question … ‘Why? Why do we need data centers, and why is it so pressing?’” Brown said, pointing to the use of data centers in everything from online shopping to Google searches to ChatGPT. “The question then jumps to, how do we provide and keep up with these demands? … How do we take advantage of the economic benefits while ensuring our power grid, our water supply, the environment, health and safety, security and the citizens are always protected at the highest level.” For the next three hours, 19 subject matter experts offered testimony across four categories: economic development, energy and water resources, local impact and construction and workforce. They represented a broad range of industries, including Amazon Web Services and the data center industry, economic development agencies at the local and state level, utility companies, river basin commissions, Marcellus Shale and petroleum industry representatives, statewide municipal leadership organizations, real estate, education and construction unions. The first speaker, Merle Madrid, the senior manager of public policy at Amazon Web Services, which is Amazon’s cloud computing arm, quickly touted the tech and e-commerce giant’s plan to invest $20 billion in Pennsylvania to expand its data center infrastructure to support artificial intelligence and cloud computing. Amazon announced data centers in Salem Twp. in Luzerne County, tapping into the Talen Energy nuclear power plant, and a second in Bucks County. Madrid projects the data centers will create at least 1,250 new, high-skilled jobs while supporting thousands of other jobs in the data center supply chain. “There’s a lot of talk when it comes to data centers, and rightfully so, about the energy and water needs. We understand that,” Madrid said. “At Amazon, we’re constantly innovating data center designs to reduce their impact on the environment and the community, and working to power them with carbon free energy and making them more energy and water efficient.” Emphasizing the role of nuclear energy, in addition to the Talen power plant, Madrid said Amazon is exploring using small modular nuclear reactors at the facility. John Augustine, president and CEO of Penn’s Northeast, a Pittston-based collective aiming to promote new investments, jobs and business opportunities by promoting Northeast Pennsylvania, characterized data centers as the “fourth industrial revolution,” following coal and iron as the second wave and warehousing and distribution as the third. He said his firm is working with or aware of at least 15 data centers in Northeast Pennsylvania, though he doesn’t expect all to materialize. He pointed to financial incentives, like a large data center contributing $32 million a year in local economic activity and generating $9 million in state and local tax revenue. Both Augustine and Madrid described technologies like quieter fans or more efficient liquid cooling to reduce noise and water demands. Christine M. Martin, the president of PPL Electric Utilities, and Tony Nokovich, vice president of engineering at Pennsylvania American Water, both pointed to previous and ongoing investments into their infrastructure to position the utilities to address the water and electricity needs. Martin said PPL currently has a system peak of 7.5 gigawatts of power, or 7,500 megawatts, with 14.4 gigawatts of data center loads under advanced agreement. “That took us about 100 years to get to, so talking about roughly a doubling of our system peak in the next five to six years, which is obviously transformational not just to the commonwealth and the 29 counties (served by PPL) but also for our system to be able to serve that load,” she said. For the first gigawatt of load in PPL’s system from data centers, paired with an accompanying $100 million investment, Martin said it would average a 10% reduction in transmission charges for residential customers, with the first gigawatt being most impactful and every additional gigawatt implemented having added benefit. She noted the potential need for more power lines to power the centers. An average water-cooled data center could use up to 3 million gallons per day in the summer months, dropping to potentially 800 gallons per day in January, Nokovich said. “These extreme demand swings present potential challenges to system design and operation,” he said. Water utilities like PAW would have to construct facilities to satisfy the large demands, and the demand could require large transmission needs and storage tanks, with PAW positioned to manage the stress as it invests about $700 million into infrastructure annually. Nokovich urged legislators that as they look at policy measures to streamline the growth of data centers, they should also consider water demand fore