$2.1 billion Vantage data center announced for Fairfield County | NBC4 WCMH-TV Skip to content by: Katie Millard Posted: Oct 12, 2025 / 06:30 AM EDT Updated: Oct 13, 2025 / 05:31 AM EDT SHARE MILLERSPORT, Ohio ( WCMH ) — After months of speculation, the state confirmed that Vantage Data Centers is behind a $2.1 billion data center project in Fairfield County. Originally estimated at $1 billion, Gov. Mike DeWine said the project will be an investment twice that size and plans to create 37 full-time positions at a site off State Routes 204 and 37. Residents of the village of Millersport knew a data center was coming, but some told NBC4 they were worried the investment would harm the community’s way of life. “I’ll be honest, this whole data center deal feels like a hoodwink,” Millersport resident Zack Gorsuch told NBC4 in June. “Millersport is a small, beautiful village with deep roots and real community. A massive industrial box dropped on farmland doesn’t add value — it takes away the quiet, the charm, and the natural character that makes this place special.” On Tuesday, Fairfield County commissioners considered a development agreement between the county, Millersport and Vantage Data Centers, indicating county support for construction. The state will also provide support for the project; DeWine said Vantage received a 50% tax exemption for 10 years on certain purchases related to the Millersport project. State agencies would not confirm that Vantage was behind the data center plans this summer, but the Denver-based data center company was the most widely expected customer. Wednesday’s announcement appears to be the first confirmation from the state that Vantage is behind the Millersport project. Although no name was given, Fairfield County commissioners said a data center company was planned for Millersport in their meetings. An application filed with the Ohio Power Siting Board offered more details, requesting state authorization to build the Millersport Energy Center, a power-generating facility to provide energy for a data center. However, the energy center application was withdrawn in September with little explanation. It is not clear what will be used in its place to power the Vantage data center. Although the scope of the Millersport data center is not yet public, even small data centers require major amounts of energy. Residents wrote to the state objecting the data center. Millersport resident Jessica Palmer wrote the Ohio Power Siting Board asking them to deny the request, saying the data center will put families out of their homes. “It will cause an increase in traffic that the Village of Millersport is not equipped to handle, an increase in the population that the Village of Millersport is not equipped to handle, and most importantly, destroy the hometown feel that we, the residents of the Village of Millersport, have worked so hard to achieve and secure,” Palmer wrote. The state did not provide a timeline for Vantage’s project. The now-withdrawn power station had planned to begin construction in 2026. This marks the second central Ohio investment for Vantage Data Centers, which broke ground in New Albany in October 2024. New Albany’s project was a $2 billion investment that is still under construction. Add as preferred source on Google Suggest a Correction Close Modal Suggest a Correction Your name (required) Your email (required) Report a typo or grammatical error (required) Submit Correction Δ ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now Storm Team 4 Weather Alert SIGN UP NOW Most read on NBC4 Pickerington celebrates Styles brothers in NFL Draft Woman pleads not guilty in deadly I-270 crash 1 dead, 1 hurt in wrong-way crash on I-270 Parking changes coming soon for John Glenn International Former Galion school contractor sentenced for child … Prosecutors call witnesses in Meade trial UPS driver blames union for $150,000 buyout denial NFL draft live updates: Second and third rounds If SAVE Act passes, here’s what Ohioans need to vote Disqualified governor candidate claims she’s still … Read More Top Stories Trending on NBC4 Pickerington celebrates Styles brothers in NFL Draft Woman pleads not guilty in deadly I-270 crash 1 dead, 1 hurt in wrong-way crash on I-270 Parking changes coming soon for John Glenn International Former Galion school contractor sentenced for child … Prosecutors call witnesses in Meade trial BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks Don't Miss See these free movies in Ohio’s 2026 film celebration More flight options offered from Columbus NBC4 to welcome 5th Puppy on a Mission in April Download the NBC4 streaming app on your smart TV Columbus’s best free indoor play spaces for kids Local News NOW PLAYING National prescription drug take back day returns Dancing for inclusion and community Woman pleads not guilty in deadly I-270 crash NBC4 Sports Extra | Draft Day The Pick Is In Elementary students get a lesson in traffic safety Columbus Fire welcomes new K-9 member More Videos