$3 billion data center campus coming to eastern Powhatan | WRIC ABC 8News Skip to content by: Ryan Nadeau Posted: Oct 29, 2025 / 05:35 PM EDT Updated: Oct 29, 2025 / 05:35 PM EDT SHARE POWHATAN COUNTY, Va. (WRIC) — A $3 billion, 181-acre data center campus is coming to eastern Powhatan County following a unanimous vote by its Board of Supervisors. On Monday, Oct. 28, the Powhatan County Board of Supervisors voted 5-0 in favor of a rezoning request related to a data center campus on its eastern boundary with Chesterfield County, per an Oct. 29 press release. The request, made by Newport Equities, LLC, rezoned just under 62 acres of land off of Page Road near Anderson Highway from agricultural to light industrial. When combined with the 120 acres that were similarly rezoned for this purpose in 2024 , the full data center campus will total about 181 acres. “In taking the vote, supervisors noted the significant tax revenue that would be generated by the data center, which would reduce the county’s reliance on residential property taxes,” the county said in the release. “Currently, residential property makes up just over 93% of all property values across the county, compared to less than 7% for commercial property.” It’s estimated that the data center, once complete, will generate about $10 million in additional annual property tax revenue. “I think this project will be a phenomenal addition to Powhatan and the future of this county, especially to really balance out the revenue between commercial and residential [property taxes,]” said vice chairman Mark Kinney in the release. The data center itself will be 2 million square feet in size once complete, according to the county. The board also voted to allow data center structures to be up to 90 feet tall with “proper screening,” far exceeding the typical 45-foot height limit. However, the developer also agreed to several proffers — or conditions — set by the county. This includes building setbacks and natural buffers along the property line and traffic improvements on Anderson Highway. The developer will also have to enter into a utility agreement with Powhatan and make both on-site and off-site utility improvements, “including contributing to improvements and upgrades for the county’s utility system required to serve the site,” the county said. The board’s decision on Monday comes after the county’s Planning Commission unanimously reccomended that the request be denied . In Tuesday’s press release, the county explained what changed. “Staff and the Planning Commission initially reccomended denial of the rezoning request based on the absence of proffers addressing the contribution to the utility system,” officials said. “However, the inclusion of these proffers afer the Planning Commission vote resulted in staff reccomending approval of the request.” Virginia is largely considered the data center capital of the world , as it has the largest data center concentration globally. Add as preferred source on Google Suggest a Correction Close Modal Suggest a Correction Your name (required) Your email (required) Report a typo or grammatical error (required) Submit Correction Δ ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews Trending Stories POV: Chesapeake teen rescues dog from icy pond Change could be coming to Virginia’s divorce laws Man waits months for car repairs, hopes to close … Former boxing champ to open boxing club ‘Va. will be for lovers’: Marriage equality bills … Shifting tarp exposes dead body months after New … Family mourns 20-year-old killed in Ashland shooting Families left in the dark by daycare record gaps More Trending Stories no iframe support! Events BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks Local Events