Fundraiser by Daniel Eustice : Support Our Fight Against Data Center Development D Daniel Eustice J J J 43 donors Read story 0% complete $3,200 raised of $3.2K ‌ D Daniel Eustice D Daniel Eustice is organizing this fundraiser. Update: Our fight continues Tuesday 1/27/26 6:00 pm at the Dorrance township municipal building. This is a challenge to the ordinance by the data center developer. We need to have a big turnout. Public comment will be allowed. We will be providing expert testimony as well. For those who are looking to donate for this testimony, I have reopened this fundraiser with a goal of collecting an additional $1,200. Payment has already been made so we will be prepared. Most importantly, all who are concerned about data centers moving into our area need to attend this meeting! There has been talk of a potential data center in Hobbie, so this will likely be an ongoing fight. Thanks to all who have helped and come out to the meetings. See background below: Concerned residents of Dorrance Township, Mountain Top, and the surrounding areas are looking to raise funds to protect against data center development in non-industrial areas. There is a proposed data center on Yeager Road which would be 6 buildings totaling 918,000 square feet on 155 acres. People throughout the country are quickly becoming aware of the negative effects of data centers. Some of our many concerns regarding data centers include well and aquafer depletion as data centers can consume millions every day, worsening air quality, noise and light pollution, decreased quality of life, environmental destruction and loss of quality wildlife habitat, rising electricity costs passed on to residents, physical and mental health risks, and reduction in property value. Dorrance Township & Zoning worked hard and spent a good deal of time creating an ordinance regarding data centers, but the developer has filed a “substantive validity challenge” to the zoning ordinance. We are trying to do whatever we can to protect the way of life we all enjoy in our area. We fear this could just be the beginning if we don’t continue to be vigilant as it may lead to further data center development in Dorrance Township, Mountain Top, and surrounding areas. If you would like to donate it would be very appreciated! Sincerely, Concerned residents of Dorrance Township, Mountain Top and surrounding areas Read more Donations 43 See top ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ See all See all Organizer D Daniel Eustice Organizer Mountain Top, PA October 8th, 2025 Community Donation protected Report fundraiser Your easy, powerful, and trusted home for help Easy Donate quickly and easily Powerful Send help right to the people and causes you care about Trusted Your donation is protected by the GoFundMe Giving Guarantee