The Political Price Shock of Data Centers and Electric Bills - The New York Times Ir Some residents in Hogansville, Ga., worry a data center may soon be built near their town, further raising energy costs. Credit... Nicole Craine for The New York Times Supported by SKIP ADVERTISEMENT Listen · 10:08 min Share full article 869 By David W. Chen David W. Chen talked to voters and Republican and Democratic activists in Hogansville, LaGrange and Valdosta, Ga., to unpack the recent elections for the Georgia Public Service Commission. Published Nov. 30, 2025 Updated Dec. 1, 2025 As loyal Republicans, Reece Payton said that he and his family of cattle ranchers in Hogansville, Ga., had one thing on their minds when they cast their ballots in November for the state’s utility board — “to make a statement.” They were already irked by their escalating electric bills, not to mention an extra $50 a month levied by their local utility to cover a new nuclear power plant more than 200 miles away. But after they heard a data center might be built next to their Logos Ranch, about 60 miles southwest of Atlanta, they had enough of Republicans who seemed far too receptive to the interests of the booming artificial intelligence industry. “That’s the first time I ever voted Democrat,” Mr. Payton, 58, said. Message sent. In some of Georgia’s reddest and most rural counties, Republicans crossed party lines this month and helped propel two Democrats, Peter Hubbard and Alicia Johnson, to landslide upsets , ousting the incumbent candidates on the Georgia Public Service Commission . No Democrat has served on the five-person commission, which regulates utilities and helps set climate and energy policy , since 2007. Across the country, Democrats have seized on rising anxiety over electricity costs and data centers in what could be a template for the 2026 midterm elections. In Virginia, Governor-elect Abigail Spanberger pledged during her campaign to lower energy bills and make data centers pay more . In the House of Delegates, one Democratic challenger unseated a Republican incumbent by focusing on curbing the proliferation of data centers in Loudoun County and the exurbs of the nation’s capital. In New Jersey, Governor-elect Mikie Sherrill promised to declare a state of emergency on utility costs and freeze rates. And in Memphis, State Representative Justin J. Pearson, who is challenging Representative Steve Cohen in a high-profile Democratic primary next year, has vowed to fight a supercomputer by Elon Musk’s artificial intelligence company, xAI, that would be located in a predominantly Black neighborhood. Strong opposition by citizens forced the Tucson City Council in August to pull the plug on an Amazon data center slated for that Arizona city, and then in September forced Google to call off one in Indianapolis. “Electricity is the new price of eggs,” said Charles Hua, executive director of Powerlines , a nonpartisan organization which aims to modernize utility regulations and reduce power bills. “This is a defining moment for politicians of all stripes — what’s your answer to lowering utility bills? Because I think consumers and voters are looking for leadership on this.” Image Reece Payton at his cattle ranch in Hogansville, Ga. Credit... Nicole Craine for The New York Times Image Residents gather at a City Council meeting in Hogansville to discuss a proposed data center. Credit... Nicole Craine for The New York Times After meeting recently with Virginia legislators, Mr. Hua said he was struck by how “the nexus of data centers and utility bills actually came up very consistently.” In 2022, a spike in natural gas prices following the Russian invasion of Ukraine fueled a rise in energy costs around the U.S. Utilities have also undertaken costly projects to modernize the power grid and improve the infrastructure to guard against extreme weather and absorb an anticipated surge in demand from data centers. As the price of electricity has risen , more American customers have fallen behind on their utility bills , or have had their power cut off . Georgia ranks 35th in energy affordability , in part because of cost overruns and delays associated with its new Plant Vogtle nuclear generators in Waynesboro, according to the American Legislative Exchange Council, an influential conservative policy group. So it wasn’t a surprise when Attorney General Chris Carr and Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger — candidates in the Republican primary to succeed term-limited Gov. Brian Kemp — called November’s results a referendum on affordability . “You’re a fool if you don’t recognize that,” Mr. Carr said. Some Georgia Republicans have cautioned against reading too much into the 25-percentage-point losses suffered by the utility board incumbents, Tim Echols and Fitz Johnson. This year’s elections stemmed from a 2020 federal lawsuit , which contended that the statewide elections for commission seats, which represent geographic districts, were unfair to Black voters. An appeals court eventually ruled against the plaintiffs , but the legal battle delayed the elections — setting the stage for November’s two races, the only statewide ones this year. (Two more utility seats will be contested in 2026.) Democratic turnout was also boosted, Republicans said, by municipal elections in strongholds like Atlanta. “I think it’s a complete anomaly,” State Senator Greg Dolezal said at a Republican event in Valdosta to tout his candidacy for lieutenant governor next year. Noting the comfortable margins racked up by President Trump in 2024 and Mr. Kemp in 2022, he added, “There’s no planet on which a 65-35 split is representative.” One plaintiff in the lawsuit was Brionté McCorkle, executive director of Georgia Conservation Voters . She said the lawsuit enabled advocacy groups to develop a plan to help people “connect the dots” between the bills they were receiving and the commission’s role in approving six rate increases for Georgia Power, the state’s largest electric provider, over the last two years. The group’s political action fund spent $2.3 million, sending half a million texts, plastering 92 billboards across the state and producing an anti-incumbent website . That outreach made a difference, she said, pointing to Lowndes and Brooks counties on the Florida border. In previous races for federal and state offices going back to 2018, including the public service commission, Republicans won there by 20 points. This year, Mr. Echols and Mr. Johnson each lost by more than 13 points. At a weekly food pantry run by South Street Care House in Valdosta , Ga., where dozens of cars had lined up to receive a box full of fresh fruits, vegetables, breads and other staples, several people said they had heard about the election through texts and social media. Image Cars lined up at the South Street Care House food pantry in Valdosta, Ga. Credit... Nicole Craine for The New York Times Image Cynthia Smith packs boxes for pickup at the South Street Care House food pantry. Rising electricity bills are squeezing residents’ monthly budgets. Credit... Nicole Craine for The New York Times Barbara Lehman, 66, is typically a reliable Republican, but not this time, according to her daughter Angela and granddaughter Shelby, who were among those waiting for food. “If the power companies want to expand their business, then that should be on them, not the consumer,” Ms. Lehman said in a text message. “Some people are just barely making it as it is.” At the event attended by Mr. Dolezal and two other candidates for statewide offices, Gary McMillan, a former chair of the Lowndes County Republican Party , said that he, too, knew Republicans who bucked the party. “They said my electric bills keep going up, and Republicans control the public service commission, and I’ve got a problem with that,” Mr. McMillan recounted. “I told all of them, elect a Democrat, and your bills will go up some more.” Data centers have been a prominent issue in Atla