QTS targets two data center campuses in Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel QTS targets two data center campuses in Georgia Company is also expanding in Wilmer, Texas March 13, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say QTS is targeting two new data center campus in Georgia. The company has filed to develop a campus in Blakely in the southwestern corner of Georgia. It has also been named as the developer behind a project in Augusta, on the eastern side of the Peach State. In Texas, the firm has filed to expand its in-development campus in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. QTS eyes Blakely – Google Maps The Blackstone-owned company has filed a Developments of Regional Impact (DRI) application with the Georgia Department of Community Affairs for a new campus in the city of Blakely. Blakely, in Early County, is located in the southwestern corner of Georgia on the state border with Alabama. DataCenterMap currently lists no facilities in the area. The campus could total 12 million sq ft (1.11 million sqm), achieving full build-out by the end of 2035. Few further details are available. According to a FAQ sheet linked by the city, the project will use a closed-loop cooling system. The project address in the filing shows undeveloped land off Martha Berry Highway, close to Early County Airport. On its ‘ in consideration ’ page, QTS lists a project in Blakely: “QTS is exploring opportunities to establish new data center campuses in Blakely, Georgia. We are committed to serving as a responsible and engaged neighbor, supporting economic growth, advancing environmental stewardship, and contributing to the ongoing prosperity of Blakely,” the company says. The project is known as Project Blue Hole, according to the Development Authority of Early County, which first posted about the project in November 2025. The project had reportedly been in planning since 2024. Atlanta, traditionally a Tier 2 market, has quickly become a major hotspot for data center development. DRI applications for more than a dozen campuses, totaling tens of millions of square feet across dozens of buildings, have been filed over the last couple of years. While many are in Atlanta’s traditional data center heartland around Fulton County, applications have been filed for projects across the Peach State. QTS has an existing footprint in Georgia across two campuses: one in Atlanta and another in Suwanee, in operation since 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 1033 Jefferson Street NW site in Atlanta spans more than 100 acres and offers more than 275MW of capacity, and a 385,000 sq ft (35,760 sqm) facility to the northeast of the city in Suwanee. QTS targets Augusta The company is also developing campuses in the Augusta and Fayetteville areas of Georgia. The Fayetteville project, in Fayette County, around 20 miles south of Atlanta, has been in development since 2022. Known as Project Excalibur, QTS plans to develop 6.6 million sq ft (613,160 sqm) of data center space across 16 buildings on the 615-acre site. The campus would total around 250MW. Augusta is a city in eastern Georgia, near the South Carolina border in Richmond County. QTS is looking to develop a campus on more than 170 acres between the Hayne’s Station and Captain’s Corner neighborhoods near Fort Gordon, with investments set to total more than $2 billion. The Augusta project could total six data center buildings , with the first planned for completion as soon as 2027. Construction has reportedly begun. “QTS is exploring opportunities to establish new data center campuses in Augusta, Georgia,” the company says on its website. The property was first rezoned for a data center in 2022 by T5 . QTS received updated approvals in 2024 and again in 2025 after expanding the project. QTS had previously been working on the project through its Eagle South LLC – QTS’ name has only recently been attached to the project. Blackstone-owned Link Logistics recently filed to develop a five-building data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia, near Union City. QTS expands in Texas – QTS Founded in 2003 and owned by Blackstone since 2021, QTS has dozens of data centers in operation and development across the US, UK, Netherlands, and Spain. First reported by BizJournal , QTS is looking to expand its in-development campus around Dallas, Texas. The company recently filed with the Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation to develop two new buildings – DC5 and DC6 – at its DFW2 campus in Wilmer. Both buildings, located at 421 Mason Road, would be two-story facilities totaling 363,500 sq ft (33,770 sqm) and see $290 million invested. Construction on both would start in July 2026 for a September 2027 completion date. Blackstone-owned QTS filed to develop the first building at the Mason Road site bordering Lancaster in September 2024 , filing for two more buildings last year . QTS has an existing campus in the Irving area of Dallas. The 55-acre site, at 6431 Longhorn Drive , offers 147MW of capacity. It also operates one in Fort Worth that it acquired in 2017. Another QTS campus is in development around San Antonio . Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 04 Dec 2025 Bitzero breaks ground on Finland data center Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in Colocation & Wholesale NTT Global Data Centers Guide to India data center expansion 06 Nov 2025 Fermi secures preliminary approval for 6GW of natural gas generation at up to 11GW campus in Amarillo, Texas 12 Nov 2025 DayOne to expand CTP1 Thailand data center to 300MW, signs MoU with Amata for CTP2 Tags Augusta Blakely DFW2 Dallas County Eagle South LLC Early County Project Blue Hole Project Eisenhower QTS Richmond County Texas Wilmer Comments