Cannon Falls explores major data center project following land annexation Skip to content Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google CANNON FALLS, Minn. (KTTC) – Big changes could be on the way to Cannon Falls. Last week, the city officially took over nearly 240 acres of land from Randolph Township. Land which could soon be home to a major private data center. Cannon Falls City Administrator Jon Radermacher said the developer, TRACT, has eyed the site between Rochester Blvd. and Hwy. 52 for a private data center since last winter. “In their narratives, it talks about hundreds of millions to potentially a billion dollars,” Radermacher said. Data centers are physical IT servers used for running technology-based services. “Our data center is a few servers that we have in a in a room,” Radermacher commented. “All of our information that is stored and accessed goes into these servers here, handled locally.” While the project still needs city council’s approval, Rademacher mentioned there are hurdles ahead for development, ranging from ordinances and utilities to infrastructure and city code. “We are going to be asking for a lot of those infrastructure costs to be paid for in advance, or even paid for as they’re being developed,” Radermacher said. Additional city requirements include buffer zones between the north end of the site and residential properties in Randolph. “There’s a natural break between the residential properties and where the land is going to be developed, that will be about 250 ft.,” Radermacher said. Randolph Township resident Wayne Bell said he’s not necessarily against the project, but he wants a seat at the table, considering the development would be against his back door. “A cornfield makes a great neighbor, and we’ve had that forever,” Bell said. Bell mentioned he still hasn’t been properly informed by the township, developer, or city. “Or, for that matter, the owner of the property, who has technically been my neighbor for 20 plus years,” Bell mentioned. Bell said all he is asking for is for his voice to be heard during the site planning process. “There is nobody here who has got the power or authority to stop it. So, might as well get on board and make it part of your project,” Bell said. “We can choose the type of trees that they plant and the buffer zone, things like that.” Randolph Township Chairman Tom Krauter declined KTTC’s interview request but provided a brief statement about the annexation process. Randolph township has reached an orderly annexation agreement with the city of Cannon Falls. All of our concerns with the city and the developer have been met and we have signed agreements with parties involved. If approved by city council in late fall, TRACT will break ground on the project site within the next year. The City of Cannon Falls will pay Randolph Township about $2,400 a year for 10 years as part of the annexation deal. Public hearings for the project will begin in September. Find stories like this and more, in our apps . Copyright 2025 KTTC. All rights reserved. Most Read UPDATE: Cresco man seriously hurt after crash with pickup truck, trailer UPDATE: Rochester man hospitalized in Olmsted County crash, alcohol believed to be factor UPDATE: Rochester teen arrested in wrong-way incident along Highway 52 UPDATE: Ten fire departments respond to fire near West Concord Olmsted County updates number of properties impacted by tornado damage Multiple agencies respond to Rochester garage fire Thursday night First Alert Day: Strong storms are possible Thursday evening UPDATE: Woman with life-threatening injuries after four-vehicle crash on U.S. 63 Latest News Councilmember calls for salary cuts for Rochester City Council and mayor Councilmember calls for salary cuts for Rochester City Council and mayor Rochester bookstore gets ready to celebrate Independent Bookstore Day Saturday GOP calls for US Senate Candidate Royce White to end campaign Inside Iowa Politics: Emotional farewell speech from Sen. Jack Whitver Minnesota GOP calling on Republican Royce White to end his U.S. Senate campaign Southeast Minnesotans continue cleanup after tornadoes Southeast Minnesotans continue cleanup after tornadoes