Microsoft looks to buy 57.8 additional acres in Gaines Township, Michigan - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Microsoft looks to buy 57.8 additional acres in Gaines Township, Michigan Land parcel located north of company's 356-acre site March 23, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say Microsoft is looking to expand its land holdings in Gaines Township, Michigan. The company is planning to acquire an additional 57.8 acres of land at 4100 68th Street, located just north of the 356 acres it already owns in the Grand Rapids area, which Microsoft is seeking to develop into a data center. – Google Maps As reported by News 8 (WoodTV) , the new land is part of the Steelcase wood plant site, and Microsoft will likely also seek to rezone the property. A statement from the company said: “Microsoft is working through the process of purchasing a small amount of additional land near our site in Gaines Township. As soon as those purchases are complete, we’ll be sure to share more information," adding that the purchase will likely be discussed during the township's planning meeting on April 15. Microsoft first purchased land in Gaines Township in October 2024 , at the time spanning 316 acres, and acquired it from Steelcase. This was later expanded to 356 acres in 2024, with the company applying to rezone the additional 40.5-acre parcel acquired from Republic National Distributing Co. in December 2025 . That rezoning request - still pending - saw Microsoft confirming its plans to establish a data center at the site, though details about project timelines and scale remain sparse, with the company not expected to formally submit plans for a few months after the rezoning, should it be approved. Most of Michigan's data centers are centered around Detroit, but Grand Rapids, towards the west of the state, also has a small hub of facilities. Last week, Microsoft revealed it would no longer be seeking nondisclosure agreements (NDAs) for its data center projects, citing a need for improved transparency with local communities. In addition to plans for Gaines Township, the hyperscaler is also developing data center campuses in Lowell Township, Kent County, and Dorr Township, Allegan County. More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 04 Dec 2025 NJFX plans 10MW liquid-cooled data hall in New Jersey Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 29 Oct 2025 Nvidia partners with Oracle and DOE for two AI supercomputers at Argonne National Laboratory Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 4100 68th Street Gaines Township Grand Rapids Michigan Microsoft Comments