Tract withdraws data center application after Chesterfield recommends against it | WRIC ABC 8News Skip to content by: Clare Gehlich Posted: Jul 2, 2025 / 04:45 PM EDT Updated: Jul 2, 2025 / 04:45 PM EDT SHARE CHESTERFIELD COUNTY, Va. (WRIC) — The company backing the proposed 700-acre data center in Chesterfield County has pulled its zoning application after it was unanimously recommended against. On Tuesday, June 17, the new proposal for a data center located on 744 acres at 16100 Branders Bridge Road received a thumbs down from the Planning Commission following a negative review. The Chesterfield Department of Transportation also did not recommend approval on this case According to Tract, they are planning to submit a new file for redevelopment in the future, but did not discuss the specifics in which they would adjust the proposal moving forward. “We have withdrawn our application for the Chesterfield project to address specific feedback we have received, including greater alignment with the County’s long term transportation goals. We are confident we can make appropriate modifications to address the County`s feedback and intend to resubmit the application in the coming months.” “Where I have a real challenge is where it’s located,” said Gib Sloan, who represents the Bermuda District on the planning commission, during the June 17 meeting. The data center would offer access to the energy and water line connections in its rural location. “However, I cannot distance myself because at its most fundamental level, this body is responsible for making land use decisions,” Sloan said. “At the end of the day, we need to look at a case through the lens of the health, safety and welfare of its citizens.” He said he could not support the decision due to its sole access point, which would be along Branders Bridge Road; this would result in what he believes would be poor infrastructure and more traffic should there only be one access point on that road. The Planning Commission heard from those in support of the data center as well, impacting the Chesterfield community as a whole. “We believe that working together — we can really provide a perspective that will keep the Richmond region and Chesterfield County on the forefront of society and bring the benefits of bringing digital infrastructure to everyone,” said John Martin, CEO of RVA757 Connects, who aims to work to advance digital, rail and road infrastructure. “With that unknown and the knowledge that would the road network in that area from a safety standpoint is substandard — to the point where CDOT is recommending denial because we’re not creating the redundancies of the road network to help alleviate some of that traffic pressure off of Branders Bridge Road, I can’t ignore that,” Sloan said. “I’m not sure how there’s a workaround to that if we’re not willing to create other access points and have a little firmer knowledge on that.” This news comes less than a month after the county approved two data center development rezonings — one at 750 Watkins Centre Parkway, a 350-acre property, and Upper Magnolia Green West technology village. Add as preferred source on Google Suggest a Correction Close Modal Suggest a Correction Your name (required) Your email (required) Report a typo or grammatical error (required) Submit Correction Δ ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews Trending Stories Change could be coming to Virginia’s divorce laws Family mourns 20-year-old killed in Ashland shooting Henrico opens enrollment for landscape assessment … $1.2M+ in illegal drugs seized in just one week: … Mother seeks answers after son killed in solitary Only On 8: Huguenot graduation day shooter speaks Former boxing champ to open boxing club Suspect appears in court after Richmond domestic … Charges dropped in case of Va. solitary cell killing Convicted child rapist has exploited 2 more kids: … More Trending Stories no iframe support! Events BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks Local Events