Dahlgren West | 500 Acres of Opportunity for King George County Skip to content Dahlgren West Paul 2025-05-21T16:18:01-04:00 Dahlgren West 500 Acres of Opportunity for King George County Dahlgren West, also known as the Cleydael Settlement Area, is a 500-acre site adjacent to James Madison Parkway (Route 301). Currently zoned with a mix of uses, including commercial and industrial, Dahlgren West has been formally designated a Technology District by King George County. As part of a plan to encourage smart, clustered, and sustainable economic development in King George County, Dahlgren West is the site of a proposed data center campus that will drive substantial recurring revenue for the County while also delivering new jobs and infrastructure upgrades. Estimated Annual Fiscal Impact for Real Estate and Personal Property Taxes Generated from Dahlgren West at Full Build-Out: ~$100m-120m Project Summary And Details ~$100m – 120m Dahlgren West Application to King George County The Dahlgren West team is excited to share that we've officially submitted the application to King George County. This submission comes after over a year of engaging conversations with residents, community leaders, and key stakeholders. The insights and valuable feedback gathered directly from these interactions shaped our approach, ensuring the project reflects local priorities and aspirations. We appreciate the openness, enthusiasm, and collaboration of everyone who participated in [...] Read More Community Meeting Recap, October 30, 2024 On October 30, the Dahlgren West Data Campus hosted an informative community meeting at the L.E. Smoot Library for our immediate neighbors, including the Cleydael Estate community. With a strong turnout, attendees demonstrated genuine interest in the project’s details and its potential to support local economic growth. Representatives from the data campus outlined their commitment to environmental responsibility, infrastructure improvements, and positive impacts to King George County, emphasizing their [...] Read More Community Meeting Materials! April 17, 2024 For those that missed it, the Dahlgren West team was pleased to host its first community meeting at the University of Mary Washington on April 17. Thank you to those community members that made it and allowed our team to learn from you. The discussion covered a project overview, the impact the Dahlgren West development will have on the King George County community, and great questions from attendees. Read More Contact the Dahlgren West Team Have questions, comments, or concerns about Dahlgren West? Contact us using the form below. Thank you for your message. It has been sent. × There was an error trying to send your message. Please try again later. × Submit 6113 James Madison Pkwy King George, VA 22485 540-469-0751 Copyright ©2026 Dahlgren Innovation Hub | Privacy Policy Page load link Go to Top