Marion County data center Q&A draws concerns over energy costs, local hiring Skip to content Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google MARION COUNTY, SC (WMBF) - Marion County leaders held a public question-and-answer session Tuesday night on a proposed data center project. Chairman DeWayne Tennie had promised transparency after neighbors voiced concerns earlier this month. Several residents questioned data center leaders on whether the proposed facility would increase their energy bills. Officials said the project is privately funded, meaning no taxpayer dollars will be used for construction. Required upgrades are planned in coordination with utility providers to ensure costs are not shifted to local ratepayers. The project is expected to generate $28 million a year for Marion County. One resident asked directly about the financial burden on the community. “What the heck is going to happen to my electric bill? How are we supposed to eat and have heat at the same time?” the resident said. Some residents raised concerns about fossil fuel extraction during the construction process. Jessica Thomas, who lives a mile from the proposed site, said the project poses a disproportionate risk to the surrounding community. “We know black, brown, indigenous, low-income, rural communities are the ones that suffer the most when we extract and process fossil fuels, and we pollute doing that, so overall it’s a bad deal,” Thomas said. Officials said environmental studies have already been completed. Leaders said each building on the campus will use less than 7,500 gallons of water per day. Michael Hanna with MarCo Rural Water said that figure is within the normal range. “We have trailer parks in Marion County that use more water than the data center,” Hanna said. Officials with Stream, the company behind the data center, said construction for Phase 1 is expected to break ground sometime this year on Industrial Park Road off Highway 501. The full campus will eventually include six buildings developed over the next 10 to 12 years. Residents also asked whether local workers would be hired. Executive Vice President and Partner Anthony Bolner with Stream said the company is working to collaborate with a local technical school to provide training. “These are long-term, full-time jobs, so if it takes some time to find and hire those people, it’s still best to find them local,” Bolner said. A second public session is scheduled for Thursday morning at 9 a.m. to accommodate night-shift workers. Feel more informed, prepared, and connected with WMBF. For more free content like this, download our apps. Have feedback that can help us improve? Click here. Copyright 2026 WMBF. All rights reserved. Most Read Nearly 80 students forced into 400+ push-ups at school, many diagnosed with permanent kidney damage, lawsuit says Lanes blocked, 1 taken to hospital after Horry County crash involving commercial vehicle Power restored for more than 2500 in South Conway area WMBF questions prompt new internal investigation at Horry County Police Department Small fire temporarily forces evacuation of Horry County business Man runs from deputies, faces slew of charges after Marlboro County narcotics search Myrtle Beach condo complex bans personal safety measure for residents Lanes blocked, 2 taken to hospital after crash on Highway 17 in Horry County Latest News Mullins council votes to move elections amid shouting match, police escort Mullins council votes to move elections amid shouting match, police escort Warrants: Calhoun County substitute teacher threatened students, made them stand for long time Horry County Fire Rescue asks the public to hold off on some heat-related activities New details emerge in Marion murder case as police clarify arrests in Massachusetts man’s death Darlington County man arrested after allegedly pulling gun on students during school prank Rising costs, drought drive SC farmers to crisis as Senate advances aid plan ‘We weren‘t prepared’: Residents told to quickly vacate following Florence County motel’s temporary injunction