Data center could move into site of former Sherman Drive-in | wthr.com Breaking News More ( ) » Local News Data center could move into site of former Indianapolis drive-in A former drive-in theater on the east side could one day be home to new technology. One city leader tells us a data center may be moving in. To stream 13 WTHR on your phone, you need the 13 WTHR app. Download the 13 WTHR app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video INDIANAPOLIS — A former drive-in theater on Indy's east side could one day be home to new technology, according to Indianapolis City-County Councilor Ron Gibson (D-District 8). Data center proposals keep popping up all over Indiana. Before a final decision is made about plans from Google for one in Franklin Township , Gibson said a company from the west coast recently reached out to him about building a small data center on the site of the old Sherman Drive-In. "I've indicated some support there initially," Gibson said. "I've asked their attorney to reach out to the neighborhood leaders and get more community input about concerns and desires in terms of whether or not to be supportive of the data center." The company wants to remain anonymous while they fully vet the opportunity. Johnathan Brown has lived in the Martindale-Brightwood community all his life. He works right across the street from the old drive-in and says he has a lot of questions. RELATED: Indianapolis council sets final vote on Franklin Twp. Google data center amid growing opposition "I don't understand why it would be beneficial for us, you know, but costing us problems with bills," Brown said. Gibson said he was excited when he got the call. He's looking forward to learning if this could open the door for more opportunities in his district. RELATED: 'This is going to affect you' | Group opposing Franklin Township data center post billboards across Indy Credit: WTHR Former Sherman Drive-in site "I believe that the area needs development and I believe that my district needs to be in the position of attracting and retaining quality jobs and partnering with a potential owner-developer that wants to invest in our community as well," Gibson said. Brown said he's going to need a little more convincing. "Just a building, just standing here and basically a lot of people don't know what it's for and what it's really doing, but they want to build a building here, so we don't understand why," Brown said. Until then, he suggests a developer go back to the property's roots. "I would like to see another drive-in, and that will bring a lot of people happiness, and it'll help the community," said Brown, adding he's looking forward to conversations with the community and learning what they have to say. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out