Agencies address concerns over plans for 700-acre data center in Cumberland County Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 57 ° Sat 56 ° Sun 62 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY Residents concerned about plans for 700-acre data center in Cumberland County by Yasmine Cowan Wed, September 10, 2025 at 6:45 AM Updated Wed, September 10, 2025 at 10:55 AM (WHP) Comment on this story 0 Comment Share story Share topics: Data center Cumberland County Community concerns Environmental impact Electricity consumption Economic benefits Digital innovation Pennsylvania Data Center Partners CUMBERLAND COUNTY, Pa. (WHP) — The Pennsylvania Data Center Partners and PowerHouse Data Centers are planning to build three data center campuses on a 700-acre site near Carlisle, and on Tuesday, the agencies got a chance to address community concerns. The project has been in the works for almost two years, and CEO of Pennsylvania Data Centers Igal Feibush said that once shovels hit the ground, it’ll be a five-year process. “It’ll real big win economically not just for the local community in Middlesex here but for the county and certainly for the school system,” Feibush said. “The school system is going to probably get somewhere of approximately an excess of $40 million a year.” During a meeting Tuesday evening at the Carlisle Sports Emporium, the Pennsylvania Data Center Partners said the proposed data center will be a catalyst for digital innovation, and the group noted how Pennsylvania is quickly becoming the epicenter for data centers. READ MORE | Dauphin County golf course will turn into data center after $45.6M sale But some community members who attended that meeting aren’t on the same page. “I don’t know that anything he could say to me would make me be like, great,” said North Middletown Township resident Nia Sherony. “Something like this is not something we’ve ever seen in our area before. This is what I keep saying to people when I’m explaining this—how much water is this going to use? How will this data center be cooled? How much electricity will this consume?” During the meeting, partnering agencies hoped to provide community members with some clarity. “After our approvals came, we started hearing a lot of questions and a lot of misinformation,” Feibush said. Feibush said the data centers won’t be taking water from the Conodoguinet Creek. But some residents said they are still concerned about the environmental impact, electricity bills sky rocketing and increased traffic. “It tends to exacerbate resources and adequacies that already exist, like water, like energy, and that’s something that I’m concerned happening here,” said Cumberland Couty resident Sam Speraw, “and we have already come to be in danger of blackouts in this area, in certain communities.” State representatives like Barb Gleim showed up to understand more about how this will impact Cumberland County. “Oh, I don’t know if it’ll be beneficial,” Gleim said. “Are our utility bills going to go up? Number two, I have a well. We live on a farm, we’re farmers, so you know, how is that going to impact that?” PPL is part of this project and stated it is committed to keeping costs as low as possible for all customers. "We expect to, as I said, to be good stewards of the community. This is the way we are going to be able to efficiently and effectively communicate, run commerce, run our businesses, and run our lives,” Feibush said. “Technology is here.” The CEO expressed to CBS 21 that he intends to move forward with the plan, and even though it’s in the planning stages, they’ve submitted their site and zoning plans for approval from the township. READ MORE | Locals voice concerns over proposed warehouse in Cumberland County Trending Mastriano proposes bill to exempt long-term elderly homeowners from PA property taxes Long-time Pennsylvania homeowners could be in for tax relief under new proposed legislation by Sen. Doug Mastriano. DHS subpoenaed Pennsylvanians for being critical of government on social media, ACLU says The ACLU of PA has filed a lawsuit after it says several Pennsylvanians have been targeted by the Department of Homeland Security for social media posts. Caretaker shoves, drags patient 75 feet by arm in senior living facility: police A medical technician has been charged after allegedly shoving a dementia patient to the ground and dragging them by their arm at a senior living facility. Parents charged after death of days-old baby, neglect of girl in Lebanon County: troopers Two parents from Grantville are facing charges connection to the death of their six-day-old baby and the alleged neglect of their daughter, troopers said. PHOTOS | 76 dogs, 15 cats seized from Columbia home in animal cruelty investigation Nearly 100 animals were removed from a West Hempfield Township home as part of an animal cruelty investigation, according to police. NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 19 PHOTOS | 76 dogs, 15 cats seized from Columbia home in animal cruelty investigation 8 PHOTOS | Trash truck flips near York County intersection, spilling fuel and oil 9 Knoebels nears opening weekend for 100th anniversary season 3 Lancaster school bus involved in multi-vehicle crash: police