Vantage files for two data center campuses outside Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Vantage files for two data center campuses outside Atlanta, Georgia Plans two sites in Fulton County August 15, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Vantage has filed to build two data center campuses outside Atlanta, Georgia. The company this month filed two Developments of Regional Impact applications with the Georgia Department of Community Affairs for data center campuses in South Fulton in Fulton County, southwest of Atlanta. vantage's Stacks Road project – Google Maps The first application , known as the Westlake project, aims to build a 754,220 sq ft (70,070 sqm) data center on undeveloped land west of Plummer Road (east of the existing Quaker facility) and north of Riverside Drive in South Fulton. The project is due for completion in January 2028. The second application, known as the Stacks Road project, aims to build a 696,980 sq ft (64,750 sqm) data center on undeveloped land in the southwest quadrant of the intersection of Stacks Road and Mallory Road, just north of the CSX Railroad. The project is due for completion in January 2027. DigitalBridge-owned Vantage currently has US data center campuses in operation and development Virginia , Washington, Arizona , California , Texas , and Ohio . While the company doesn’t currently have any data centers in Georgia, last year it filed to develop a campus in the Douglas County area of Atlanta. In August 2023 the company filed a DRI to develop a three-building campus totaling 1.7 million square feet of data center space in Douglasville. A precise location isn't listed, but the DRI makes reference to Roberts Road in Douglasville and lists a project completion date of December 2025. Atlanta is a major data center hub with operators including Microsoft, CoreSite, QTS, DataBank, Flexential, Switch, DC Blox, Edged Energy, Stack, T5, Vantage, and EdgeConneX. Fulton County is home to a number of developments, including several from Microsoft. More in Construction & Site Selection HP SitePrint for data centers 17 Jan 2026 China-backed Aurora Core Technology to establish data center in Mikkeli, Finland Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 10 Feb 2026 Cadence launches agentic AI design tool to support chip design and verification Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Georgia Vantage Data Centers Vantage Fulton County Atlanta Comments