Columbia residents speak against rezoning farm land for possible data center | Mid-Missouri News | komu.com Skip to main content You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Currently in Columbia 55°F Clear 71°F / 55°F 2 AM 52°F 3 AM 50°F 4 AM 49°F 5 AM 48°F 6 AM 48°F Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Some residents are concerned about the possibility that a data center could be built on agricultural land in north Columbia. “We've seen places like Memphis and Texas, places that are already suffering from high utility rates. Where there is not necessarily enough water for these facilities, if they are built, they just put extra strain on that,” Columbia resident James Gordon said during a city Planning and Zoning Commission meeting on Thursday. The commission voted 5-2 to recommended a zoning change for the property, which is about 63 acres. It is northeast of U.S. 63 and Paris Road . The next step would be for the proposal to go before the Columbia City Council for approval. City staff stressed that it's not a given that the land will ultimately be developed into a data center. If the zoning change is approved, the property owner or developer would then need to present a development plan to the city. Little is known about the specific plan for the property. Generally, a data center is a structure that houses a large number of computer servers. Data centers are essential for online companies that serve national or global audiences, including Amazon, Google and Facebook. Data centers are also a key component for companies using artificial intelligence, such as ChatGPT. Success! An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup. Error! There was an error processing your request. Today's Top Stories Have the top local news delivered every day to stay informed. Please enter a valid email address. Sign up Manage your lists Data centers, while essential to cyber commerce, are controversial because of the large amount of electricity and water needed to keep the computer services cool and operational. Some large data center facilities are known to use millions of gallons of water per day . Some residents at the commission meeting noted that the project would take 63 acres of farm land away from the community. They wondered why the project couldn't be built elsewhere, perhaps on the city's south side. Charlie Dahlgren/Missourian “Currently, there is a home and farm. It's been a farm for many, many, many years, and there is currently a farmer raising cattle on that property," said Isaac Ellis, a farmer who lives southeast of the potential industrial zone. "You can drive by the property right now and see cows and calves on that property, hay storage, a big barn and a nice-sized house.” Since the data center is not the only possibility, the citizens also recognize the need for job opportunities. “I think industrial land is needed in Columbia," Ellis said. "We need jobs, we need things for people to do." Even if the zoning change goes forward, the city has rules in its unified development code that must be followed to ensure the community is not being harmed, city planner David Kunz said. To report an error or typo, email news@komu.com . Click here to add KOMU 8 News as a source for your Google News Feed . Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Tags Columbia Missouri Data Center Water Agriculture Police respond to shots fired call at apartment complex, no injuries reported 4 hrs ago Man stabbed in Columbia, taken to hospital in critical condition 5 hrs ago Ashland Masonic Lodge to 'triple' impact on Southern Boone student lunch debt 6 hrs ago +4 Consolidated North Callaway Elementary nears completion ahead of fall opening 7 hrs ago The Center Project hiring second paid role to help expand LGBTQ services 8 hrs ago Jury recommends decades in prison for Holts Summit woman found guilty of murder Updated 11 hrs ago Currently in Columbia 55°F Clear 71°F / 55°F 2 AM 52°F 3 AM 50°F 4 AM 49°F 5 AM 48°F 6 AM 48°F Detailed Forecast Most Popular Articles Videos Articles One dead after crash on U.S. 54 near Jefferson City closes road Cooper County Amish retreat leader facing new charges including manslaughter Girl stabbed in Columbia, police searching for suspect No threat found at Conley Road Walmart after bomb report, police say Missouri governor set to approve restrictions on THC products U.S. 63 northbound ramp closure in Columbia brings confusion and delays Car hits Columbia school bus on I-70 Missouri income tax elimination plan moves to voters for approval Columbia physician indicted on 38 fraud counts in federal case Louisiana father kills 7 of his children plus another child in shooting at house, police say Videos © Copyright 2026 KOMU 8 5550 Hwy 63 S, Columbia, MO | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital .