Planned data center project outside Chicago, Illinois, paused due to energy infrastructure - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Planned data center project outside Chicago, Illinois, paused due to energy infrastructure Western Hospitality Partners-linked project in Braidwood on pause January 26, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A planned data center development outside Chicago, Illinois, has been paused due to transmission infrastructure. The City of Braidwood last week said on Facebook that the proposed project had been “placed on hold due to ComEd’s internal demands and regulations regarding its infrastructure.” Site of a planned data center campus in Braidwood, IL – Google Maps “The City of Braidwood remains committed to responsible economic development and to ensuring that any future projects align with the city’s long-term infrastructure capacity and the best interests of our residents,” the city said. Braidwood is a city in Will and Grundy counties, around 53 miles (85 km) southwest of Chicago and 18 miles (29 km) south of Joliet. The 2.2GW Braidwood Nuclear Generating Station, owned by Constellation, is located near the proposed development. According to a previous post , the planned site is located near Interstate 55 and Reed Road. Site plans posted by local press suggest up to eight buildings and an on-site substation, though full details haven’t been shared. The city has been exploring annexing the land in question into the city. The unnamed developer has reportedly closed on its acquisition of the land, according to local officials. Western Hospitality Partners eyes Illinois, Indiana, and maybe Alabama News of the project first surfaced in May 2025. The Braidwood Journal reports that the company behind the project is Western Hospitality Partners (WHP), working alongside Found Digital. Few details about the company are available, but Western Hospitality Partners has previously been linked to several data center projects across Kentucky , Indiana , and Pennsylvania . A planned Indiana project, located in New Carlisle, St. Joseph’s County, could total up to 14 buildings across more than 1,000 acres, with potential to reach 750MW. The county council, however, voted against the rezoning request in December. The company has a second planned Indiana project, in nearby South Bend , that could total up to ten buildings across 300 acres. Western Hospitality Partners has also been linked to a proposed project in Childersburg, Alabama. That $6 billion project could total 500MW across 486 acres in the Childersburg Industrial Park, according to Inside Climate News . Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction Sponsored State governments: The new kingmakers in India’s hyperscale data center race Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 21 Nov 2025 Sand Springs, Oklahoma, to consider "Project Spring" data center proposal Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Alabama Braidwood Childersburg ComEd Found Digital Illinois Indiana New Carlisle South Bend St. Joseph County Western Hospitality Partners Comments