Microsoft plans to buy 3,200 acres of land for data center project in Cheyenne, Wyoming - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Microsoft plans to buy 3,200 acres of land for data center project in Cheyenne, Wyoming Company already has a significant presence in the area April 15, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say Microsoft is planning to buy approximately 3,200 acres of land in Cheyenne, Wyoming, for a data center project The land is split into two parcels: 200 acres in Bison Business Park along Wapiti Trail, east of S Greeley Highway, and 3,000 acres in Southeast Cheyenne, adjacent to the 200-acre parcel accessible through Wapiti Trail, both located southeast of downtown Cheyenne. – Google Maps Details for the planned data center projects at the site have not been shared, but Microsoft notes that the announced intention to purchase land "represents the start of what the company expects to be a multiyear planning and development process." Microsoft already has a significant presence in Cheyenne, which is located in Southeast Wyoming. “Since the development of our first data center in 2012, Microsoft has been working to strengthen, not strain, the community of Cheyenne,” said Bowen Wallace, corporate vice president, data centers-Americas Region, Microsoft. “We’re excited to continue our growth in the state, bringing more investment, opportunity, and tax revenue to the community we’ve been a part of for more than 14 years.” Microsoft's first data center in Cheyenne saw the company invest $122m (in 2012). The footprint at the site was expanded in 2014 . The West Central Azure region opened in 2016. In 2021, the company opened two more data centers in Cheyenne. One of the facilities is located in the Cheyenne Business Parkway, and another is in the Bison Business Park. In 2024, local officials voted to expand the North Range Business Park by more than 920 acres to support the construction of another Microsoft data center, and the cloud giant broke ground in August 2026 . “This is the latest in a long line of investments that Microsoft has brought to the city of Cheyenne as a member of our community since 2012,” said Mayor Patrick Collins. “Microsoft recognizes the strength of our city’s workers, infrastructure, and economy. This expansion represents the next decade of opportunity and tax revenue that secures the quality of life that residents of our city enjoy.” Microsoft has committed to paying its way for any "infrastructure upgrades and power procured by the utility necessary to serve its load," and has a utility partnership with Black Hills Energy. The cloud giant is also working to bring more carbon-free energy online in the state. Beyond that, Microsoft says it will minimize its water use and replenish more water than is used, and expects the construction to bring thousands of trade jobs. Wyoming typically has a relatively small data center market. Meta is also present in the Cowboy State, while Prometheus Hyperscale and Crusoe are developing campuses in the region. Also in Cheyenne, Related Digital is developing a $1.2bn campus offering up to 302MW of capacity that will have CoreWeave as the anchor tenant. More in Cloud & Hyperscale Accelerating hyperscale deployments in the AI era 11 Dec 2025 Oracle CEO moves to quell fears about debt needed for data center build-out after disappointing Q2 results Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 13 Apr 2026 Microsoft commits to "multi-billion-dollar" investment in AI infrastructure in Ontario, Canada Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment Tags Bowen Wallace Cheyenne Laramie County Microsoft Patrick Collins Wyoming Comments