Indiana approves expanding Google's Fort Wayne data center campus onto protected wetlands, despite local opposition - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Indiana approves expanding Google's Fort Wayne data center campus onto protected wetlands, despite local opposition Company wants to build five additional buildings at Project Zodiac site September 22, 2025 By Charlotte Trueman Have your say Google’s request to build on protected wetlands at its $2 billion Project Zodiac data center campus in Fort Wayne, Indiana, has been approved by the state’s Department of Environmental Management. Per a report from local news outlet 21Alive , Google has been given the green light to fill more than two acres of wetlands in order to construct five additional buildings and associated infrastructure on land near East Paulding and Adams Center roads. – Google Maps According to the application, which was filed by Hatchworks LLC, to compensate for the wetlands destruction, Google will purchase 2.48 acres of unforested wetlands and 1.58 acres of forested wetlands from The Openings Wetland Mitigation Bank. The permit was issued on September 16, following a 30-day public comment period. The vast majority of comments were opposed to the application being granted, 21Alive reported, citing submissions that included: “Our ecosystems are on the brink, and Indiana has prioritized destroying these vital and fragile habitats. Protected wetlands should remain protected for not only the species that depend on them but the communities that also benefit from the resources they provide for clean water.” Another responder wrote: “These data centers that have gone up around the country have destroyed the communities they’re in. Why should anyone rubber-stamp higher utility bills and less usable resources for actual residents of the area, let alone the destruction of important wetlands?” Additionally, despite multiple requests from local residents to hold a public hearing regarding the application, no such meeting took place. Google was confirmed as the company behind the Project Zodiac campus proposal in January 2024, after reports of a 12-building campus spanning more than 700 acres first surfaced in October 2023 . The project –bounded by East Tillman Road, Adams Center Road, and the railroad track – was granted approval by Allen County in November . The total expected capacity of the data center in its final phase is currently unknown. However, in July 2024, Google signed a 15-year Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with renewable developer EDPR in a deal that will see the hyperscaler secure 100MW of solar power from a project situated within an Energy Community in Dubois County, Indiana. DCD has contacted Google for comment. More in Construction & Site Selection Preventing multimillion dollar data center losses through reporting 12 Feb 2026 Nebius plans 240MW data center in Béthune, France Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 14 Apr 2026 Amazon to buy Globalstar for $11.57bn, will bolster LEO satellite network Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Allen County Fort Wayne Google Indiana Indiana Department of Environmental Management Project Zodiac wetlands Comments