Powhatan County approves 180 acre data center development Skip to main content Home Newsroom News release 13 November 2025 Powhatan County approves 180 acre data center development Unanimous board approval paves way for Powhatan Technology Park Categories: Agency leasing Data center Data Centers Authors KS Kimberly Steele Industries, Work Dynamics and PDS PR About JLL RIRICHMOND, VA., Nov. 13, 2025 – JLL announces today that Newport Equities LLC, an affiliate of Province Group LLC , achieved re-zoning approval for a 180-acre data center campus project in Powhatan County, Va., a suburb of Richmond, Virginia. The County Board of Supervisors approved a re-zoning application for a 60-acre data center site, which follows an earlier approval for an adjacent 120-acre property. Together, the two parcels create an 180-acre data center campus called Powhatan Technology Park. The proposed data center campus, located about 15 miles west of Richmond’s Central Business District, has multiple transmission lines on site, including 500kV, 230kV and 115kV. “The unanimous approval from Powhatan County Board of Supervisors sends a powerful message. While other jurisdictions have pumped the brakes on data center development, Powhatan has welcomed this opportunity with open arms,” said Mark J. Kerslake, CEO of Province Group/Newport Equities LLC. “This stands out as a great example of what a strong public-private partnership can look like.” Dominion Energy will energize the campus with an initial deployment of 365 MW. The site is approved for two-story buildings and over two million square feet of data centers. Water and sewer capacity for the site is available and served by Powhatan County. "The visionary approach from both the County Board of Supervisors and Newport Equities positions this as one of the premier data center opportunities in the Mid-Atlantic," added Matt Gallagher, Executive Managing Director, Brokerage at JLL. "We're focused on securing innovative clients who recognize the value of this partnership, and with 180 acres of approved capacity, this campus is ideally suited to meet significant market demand." JLL’s Matt Gallagher will lead marketing for Powhatan Technology Park. To learn more, reach out to Gallagher at Matthew.Gallagher@jll.com . About JLL For over 200 years, JLL (NYSE: JLL), a leading global commercial real estate and investment management company, has helped clients buy, build, occupy, manage and invest in a variety of commercial, industrial, hotel, residential and retail properties. A Fortune 500 ® company with annual revenue of $23.4 billion and operations in over 80 countries around the world, our more than 113,000 employees bring the power of a global platform combined with local expertise. Driven by our purpose to shape the future of real estate for a better world, we help our clients, people and communities SEE A BRIGHTER WAY SM . JLL is the brand name, and a registered trademark, of Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated. For further information, visit jll.com .