164 acre data center could come to Sioux Falls, South Dakota - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 164 acre data center could come to Sioux Falls, South Dakota But not yet confirmed March 17, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say A data center spanning 164 acres could be built in the city of Sioux Falls, South Dakota. The so-called Sioux Falls Technology Park would be located east of Veterans Parkway, south of E. Rice Street, and west of N. Six Mile Road. – Sioux Falls Technology Park In January, developer Gemini Family Office used an affiliated company – Gemini Data Center LLC – to successfully apply for a rezoning request that would make the land parcel suitable for data center use. However, the project has yet to receive all approvals and could still be denied, according to statements made by the city’s director of planning and development services, Jeff Eckhoff, to local news station Keloland . If built, the Technology Park would source its energy from Xcel Energy’s neighboring Split Rock Substation. Details about capacity and water use were not provided on the data center campus’ website . But the website also says that “a fully built 500MW campus using modern closed-loop cooling would also use about the same amount of water as two commercial car washes.” It is not clear whether this indicates that the Technology Park will offer a similar level of capacity. Additionally, the data center’s conceptual renderings were likely generated using AI, given that the file names and hyperlinks of both pictures include the term ‘ChatGPT.’ The data center industry has been met with some pushback from residents of South Dakota, and a Facebook group, titled ‘South Dakota for Data Center Transparency,’ has amassed around 3,600 members at the time of writing. Members of the group have voiced concern about noise pollution, energy usage, and water usage while questioning the purpose of building a data center. South Dakota is not a major data center market, and most of the state’s data centers are located near Sioux Falls, which is near the southeastern corner of the state. Plans to build a 430MW campus near the city of Toronto in the state were effectively withdrawn after developer Applied Digital told Keloland that it was “unlikely to go forward.” The company’s decision was likely influenced by the potential passage of a bill that would protect ratepayers from data center-related price hikes, as well as failed attempts to introduce legislation that would have created tax breaks for the industry. More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 15 Dec 2025 Microsoft confirms plans for data center in Grand Rapids, Michigan Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 09 Mar 2026 Australia's NextDC tops out 6MW data center in Darwin Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities Tags Gemini Data Center LLC Gemini Family Office Sioux Falls Sioux Falls Technology Park South Dakota Split Rock Substation Xcel Energy Comments