Data center proposed for 500-acre site in Page, Arizona - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Data center proposed for 500-acre site in Page, Arizona But some residents already want to turn the Page on the 1GW scheme November 24, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Another large-scale data center development could be coming to Arizona. Last month, Page City Council voted 5-2 to sell 500 acres of land to Huntley LLC for a potential data center development. A feasibility study will be conducted before the sale closes. – Google Maps Page is a city along Arizona’s northern border with Utah. It is some 275 miles north of Phoenix and around the same distance east of Las Vegas. Few details on the planned campus near Horseshoe Bend in Coconino County were shared, but city documents make reference to the fact that the buyer intends to seek permits to develop a 1GW data center campus and potentially develop an on-site energy project. Though local reports say a UK-based firm going by Rooskey is involved, names and addresses in city documents link Huntley LLC to Hollybrook, a UK real estate firm. Arup Engineering is also involved. News that a large development was being targeted for Page first surfaced in September , with city documents saying negotiations have been ongoing for several months. Negotiations with a “household name” to lease the site were ongoing back in September. The buying price was $14,000 per acre, for a total of $7 million. Some $10 billion could reportedly be invested in the project. Page was founded in 1957 as a housing community for workers and their families during the construction of nearby Glen Canyon Dam on the Colorado River. The dam, launched in 1964, offers 1.32GW of capacity. Many local residents are against the development. A Change.org petition against the project has reached more than 1,475 signatures at time of writing. More than 400 signatures have also been gained toward a referendum vetoing the council's vote and allowing the citizens to vote on the project. Councilwoman Debi Roundtree, who voted in favor of the sale, told Fox : "The agreement includes provisions that allow the city to step away from the sale, including the right to repurchase the land at the original price if the required conditions are not met." A recall effort targeting several council members, including Councillor Roundtree and Mayor Steve Kidman, is also in progress. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: The New Physics of US Data Center Infrastructure 16 Mar 2026 Canadian data center company Virtual Grid launches modular prototype Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America North America data center report 25 Nov 2025 Opposition leads developer to withdraw data center proposal in Kalkaska County, Michigan Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Arizona Coconino County Hollybrook Page Comments