Big Sky Digital Skip to content Building Montana’s Energy and Technology Future EXPLORE Big Sky Digital Infrastructure Big Sky Digital Infrastructure (BSDI) is a Quantic a platform dedicated to developing the Big Sky Campus, a 5,000 acre energy and technology hub in Yellowstone County north of Billings. The campus is designed to deliver the next generation of data, AI, and digital infrastructure for Montana. BSDI brings together renewable energy, reliable grid power from NorthWestern Energy, and new regional fiber connections. Our integrated approach supports advanced data centers and digital industries, powering economic growth and unlocking new opportunities for Montana. Big Sky Digital Infrastructure Big Sky Digital Infrastructure (BSDI) is a Quantic a platform dedicated to developing the Big Sky Campus, a 5,000 acre energy and technology hub in Yellowstone County north of Billings. The campus is designed to deliver the next generation of data, AI, and digital infrastructure for Montana. BSDI brings together renewable energy, reliable grid power from NorthWestern Energy, and new regional fiber connections. Our integrated approach supports advanced data centers and digital industries, powering economic growth and unlocking new opportunities for Montana. BSDI At-A-Glance Location: 30 mi north of Billings, adjacent to major substation, highways, and rail Campus Size: 5,000 acres owned fee simple Facilities: Supports multiple data center buildings Construction: Phase 1 planned to begin construction in 2026 Power Supply: Phase 1 power ramps to 500 MW beginning in 2028, Phase 2 power ramps to 500 MW beginning in 2031 Fiber Network: Site is expected to be connected to hundreds of miles of new fiber-ready underground conduit, linking BSDI to Seattle, Salt Lake City, the Midwest, in addition to local communities Renewables: Large-scale on-site solar, wind, and battery storage in development for Phase 1 zero-carbon, resilient energy mix BSDI At-A-Glance Location: 30 mi north of Billings, adjacent to major substation, highways, and rail Campus Size: 5,000 acres owned fee simple Facilities: Supports multiple data center buildings Construction: Phase 1 planned to begin construction in 2026 Power Supply: Phase 1 power ramps to 500 MW beginning in 2028, Phase 2 power ramps to 500 MW beginning in 2031 Fiber Network: Site is expected to be connected to hundreds of miles of new fiber-ready underground conduit, linking BSDI to Seattle, Salt Lake City, the Midwest, in addition to local communities Renewables: Large-scale on-site solar, wind, and battery storage in development for Phase 1 zero-carbon, resilient energy mix Why Here? The Big Sky Digital Infrastructure campus offers unique advantages for digital infrastructure development: Abundant clean energy resources: Strong renewable energy potential at the location with projects already in development Strategic location: Ample, available land near critical transmission infrastructure Robust workforce: Proximity to Billings’ engineering, trades, and educational institutions Strong community values: Montana communities are known for collaboration and support, and our team’s local roots help ensure the project reflects those priorities. Benefits for Montana Jobs & Workforce Construction jobs Hundreds needed from 2026 onward (electricians, engineers, operators, IT professionals) Long-term technical roles Ongoing operations to support high-paying jobs in digital infrastructure and renewable energy Job Multiplier Every direct job in the data center sector supports ~7.4 additional jobs (CBRE) Workforce Development Opportunities to partner with regional colleges, trade schools, and unions to train Montanans for careers in technology and energy. Construction jobs Hundreds needed from 2026 onward (electricians, engineers, operators, IT professionals) Long-term technical roles Ongoing operations to support high-paying jobs in digital infrastructure and renewable energy Job Multiplier Every direct job in the data center sector supports ~7.4 additional jobs (CBRE) Workforce Development Opportunities to partner with regional colleges, trade schools, and unions to train Montanans for careers in technology and energy. Integrated Renewables BSDI’s new renewable generation and battery storage will add capacity to Montana’s energy system, supporting grid resilience while avoiding impacts on existing community power supplies. On-site renewables, backed by grid power, creates a strong business case for data center development Broadband Connectivity Future fiber development offers an opportunity to improve broadband and mobile coverage in underserved areas, supporting local communities, businesses, schools, and healthcare Local residents will gain access to modern, high-speed digital infrastructure that strengthens connectivity and economic opportunity. Tax Revenue & Local Support New property and business tax revenue for Yellowstone County, the Broadview schools, and the state Strong economic multipliers, each dollar invested circulates in the economy and supports local business. Big Sky Digital Infrastructure Partners Our focus is Montana first, striving to maximize the use of local contractors, advisors, and partners, with national expertise helping ensure long-term success. Current partners include: Montana-based advisors supporting local engagement and community partnerships Big Sky Digital Infrastructure Partners Our focus is Montana first, striving to maximize the use of local contractors, advisors, and partners, with national expertise helping ensure long-term success. Current partners include: Montana-based advisors supporting local engagement and community partnerships Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website