Data center project announced for Greene County - Herald-Standard close Data center project announced for Greene County Oct 16, 2025 By Garrett Neese 3 min read Brad Hundt/Observer-Reporter The Pennsylvania Energy and Innovation Summit at Carnegie Mellon University brought together investors, executives and elected officials. A large-scale data center is being proposed for Greene County. The Bryn Mawr-based Essential Utilities announced it is partnering with energy supplier International Electric Power of Pittsburgh on the 1,400-acre project, which is anticipated to go online in early 2029. In a statement Wednesday, IEP Senior Vice President David Spigelmyer said the project would be located along the Monongahela River at the former Robena Mine site, which had been dormant since 2007, when preparation plant operations ended. IEP said there is an agreement in place to purchase the land from current owner Core Natural Resources. The project could support more than 1,000 jobs during the construction phase, Spigelmyer said. “Executing and commercializing important projects like these requires a number of key elements, which the site and region provide — stable supplies of locally-produced natural gas, an outstanding workforce supported by local building trades, a strong dark fiber network, and ample acreage as well as water supply,” he said. “Our leadership group’s deep project development experience, along with regional community ties, will help position Greene County to help our country win the global AI race.” Greene County Commission Chairman Jared Edgreen said Tuesday he could not comment on the project. Facilities will be built on-site to help meet the power and water needs for the data centers powering artificial intelligence growth, a goal being pursued by state and federal leaders. The largest type, hyperscale centers of the type being proposed for Greene County, can have thousands of servers and miles worth of connection equipment. The centers have drawn criticism in other locations from residents, who have worried about potential drains on power and water resources, as well as negative environmental impacts. Power generation for the project will not rely on existing sources, Essential Utilities said. Instead, power for the energy-intensive center will come through natural gas turbines that will be installed on-site, capable of generating 910 megawatts, Spigelmyer said. It will be backed by battery storage by Eos Energy Enterprises. Spigelmyer said the added efficiency would create about 25% cost savings and more than $200 million in power cost reductions. It will also be backed by a connection to the grid, which Spigelmyer said would produce near-100% reliability. The Monongahela River site will provide water for an 18-million-gallon-a-day water treatment facility that will supply the onsite power generation facilities and the cooling systems used for the data center, Essential Utilities said. In a statement Wednesday, Essential Utilities said there would be minimal stress on the area’s watershed. Additionally, they said, all water withdrawals will be closely monitored and approved by the Department of Environmental Protection, including any consideration for available water in the Monongahela River. “Taken together, this proposed project has the ability to deliver on the energy and high-tech vision that leaders across our state recognize as a key driver for Pennsylvania’s future success,” Spigelmyer said. “We look forward to engaging with stakeholders across the region as the project advances.” The new center comes as Pennsylvania has been positioning itself as a leading site for investments in artificial intelligence sites. At an energy summit held in Pittsburgh in July, President Trump said upcoming investments into the state — including $25 billion in data centers and energy generation pledged by Blackstone — would lead to $92 million in development. CUSTOMER LOGIN If you have an account and are registered for online access, sign in with your email address and password below. Login NEW CUSTOMERS/UNREGISTERED ACCOUNTS Never been a subscriber and want to subscribe, click the Subscribe button below. Subscribe Starting at $4.79 / week. Subscribe Today