Approval for “major data center” development granted to Prism Capital Partners in Nutley, New Jersey - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Approval for “major data center” development granted to Prism Capital Partners in Nutley, New Jersey Facility to sit on 11 acre land parcel in the region July 25, 2025 By Charlotte Trueman Have your say A proposal by Prism Capital Partners to build a “major data center” at the intersection of Kingsland Street and Cathedral Avenue in Nutley, New Jersey, has been approved. According to local news platform Patch , three redevelopment proposals were granted for the company’s mixed-use ON3 campus, which straddles the Township of Nutley and the City of Clifton in New Jersey. The site at the intersection of Kingsland Street and Cathedral Avenue in Nutley, New Jersey – Google Maps Prism can now use the 11-acre parcel of land for a “major data center and other permitted uses.” The company had previously submitted a proposal for a “truck depot” on the site, but that was met with opposition from local residents due to concerns around traffic congestion, leading to the plans being ultimately “dismissed and withdrawn,” Prism’s founder, Eugene R. Diaz, said. No further information regarding the proposed data center has been announced; however, alongside it, the approved redevelopments could also see Prism build up to 1,074 housing units and add approximately 90,000 sq ft (8,361 sqm) of additional retail space alongside a 150,000 sq ft (13,935 sqm) R&D facility on the campus. The ON3 campus, which previously housed Hoffman-La Roche’s Roche Institute of Molecular Biology, was bought by Prism in 2016. At present, the site houses the Hackensack Meridian School of Medicine, Sefton Hall University’s nursing college and medical science school, and Ralph Lauren offices, amongst others, with a 10MW co-hybrid power plant providing electricity, heating, and cooling to properties that currently sit on the ON3 site. The proposed data center is approximately a mile and a half away from a 130,000 sq ft (12,077 sqm) data center acquired by GI Partners in 2018. Also located in Nutley, that facility on 492 River Road in Nutley was fully renovated in 2000, updated in 2009, and, at the time of purchase, served as a core location for BT Radianz Compute, a part of BT’s specialist cloud platform that connects capital markets customers in more than 50 countries. More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 29 Oct 2025 Sponsored Do it once, do it right Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 13 Feb 2026 2MW AI data center pitched in Ontario, Canada Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Cathedral Avenue Kingsland Street New Jersey Nutley ON3 Prism Capital Partners Comments