CleanArc partners with Crow Holdings for 245MW campus in Dallas, Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel CleanArc partners with Crow Holdings for 245MW campus in Dallas, Texas Real estate firm claims potential data center pipeline of 3GW January 21, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say US data center firm CleanArc is expanding into Texas. The company is partnering with real estate firm Crow Holdings to develop a 245MW turnkey data center campus in Dallas, Texas. Render of CleanArc's Virginia development – CleanArc Set to be built on a vacant 40-acre lot in the Stemmons Corridor, the multi-building data center campus will target an initial delivery of a 70MW building expected in late 2027. Crow Holdings has owned the site for decades and will develop the 70MW building alongside CleanArc. The development will include an on-site substation. “This campus reflects the long-term conviction we have held in the Stemmons Corridor and its unmatched connectivity advantages,” said Michael Levy, Crow Holdings CEO. “By joining forces with CleanArc, we are combining our deep institutional real estate expertise and local roots with a best-in-class digital infrastructure development platform to deliver a project that meets the scale, reliability, and speed demanded by today’s hyperscale and AI users.” CleanArc was launched in 2024 by clean energy investment firm 547 Energy. Private equity firm Snowhawk invested in CleanArc in September 2024 and is now the company's majority owner. The company has since taken follow-on investment from Townsend Group and Nuveen . Led by Vantage Data Centers founder Jim Trout, CleanArc aims to develop hyperscale data center campuses delivering 300MW+, and spanning 200-700 acres. The company is developing a large site in Virginia’s Caroline County . “Dallas is one of the most important digital infrastructure markets globally, and this site sits at the center of its connectivity ecosystem,” said Trout, CleanArc founder and CEO. “Crow Holdings’ extraordinary location, combined with secured power and our integrated development and leasing platform, creates a compelling solution for hyperscale and AI customers who require immediate scalability and ultra-low latency access.” Founded in 1948, Crow Holdings is a real estate investment and development firm with $34 billion in assets under management. The company is largely focused on multifamily and industrial developments, with investments in solar and battery projects. Crow said the planned campus is part of a broader national digital infrastructure development strategy, which reportedly has more than 3GW of potential data center capacity currently under evaluation across select US markets, including potential projects in New Jersey, Georgia, and North Carolina. We spoke to CleanArc’s CEO Jim Trout about his ambitions for the company for a recent edition of DCD>Magazine , out now and available to read for free. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 18 Nov 2025 Officials in Virginia's Prince William County deny zoning request for data center Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 09 Apr 2026 Maryland Senate passes bill aimed at managing impact of large load users on the grid Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags CleanArc Data Centers Crow Holdings Dallas Dallas Fort Worth Jim Trout Texas Comments