AWS proposes data center campus next to nuclear plant in Calvert County, Maryland - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel AWS proposes data center campus next to nuclear plant in Calvert County, Maryland Would be located near the Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant April 01, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say Amazon Web Services is looking to establish a data center campus in Calvert County, Maryland. As reported by The Baynet , the company has presented a potential data center development during a recent open house meeting. No formal proposal has been submitted. – AWS The project would be worked on with Constellation Energy, with the site near the Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant at 1650 Calvert Cliffs Parkway. Thus far, Amazon has conducted preliminary review work, regulatory analysis, site evaluation and early design concepts, but has not submitted any hard plans for the project. Based on a concept design shared by AWS during the meeting, the campus could have up to eight data centers to the south and west area of the nuclear plant. The property is already zoned for heavy industry use, and would not need to be rezoned for the project to proceed. Details about the size of the buildings or expected IT capacity have not been shared. It's unclear if the facilities would have a behind-the-meter connection to the nuclear plant. AWS has previously announced plans to expand its US East (Northern Virginia) cloud region into Maryland. In April 2025 , the company said it would be taking up space in TPG’s Quantum Frederick Park in Adams town, around 100 miles away from Calvert County. The cloud giant is also set to land its US-Ireland subsea cable, Fastnet , in the state. While AWS has presented on the possibility of developing the site near the power plant in Calvert County, it is not alone in its interest. Natelli Holdings targets Calvert County campus The Calvert County website also notes that real estate firm Natelli Holdings is interested in developing on land south of the potential AWS campus, at 10475, 10485, & 10495 Solomons Island Road. The attached presentation suggests a four-building campus could be developed at the site, for which Natelli would commit $30 million in investment. A meeting to discuss the project further will be held on April 6. Response to the prospect of data center developments in the area has not necessarily been positive. At the start of March, during a separate planning commission meeting, commissioner Mike Hart made a motion to put in place an immediate 24-month moratorium on “any approvals, permits, rezoning, plans, construction, authorizations, or any other official acts related to a data center development, until a comprehensive environmental study evaluating land, water, and air impacts is completed and formally presented to the public.” Local residents also voiced concerns about the lack of transparency up to that point, as well as opportunity for public input. Others told the meeting that development was necessary for the economic wellbeing of the area in future years. Natelli Holdings was previously looking to develop a 250MW campus in North Dakota, known as the New Hill Digital Campus . The company was keen to construct four buildings on 190 acres outside Raleigh in New Hill, Wake County, but withdrew its application last month. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: The New Physics of US Data Center Infrastructure 16 Feb 2026 Amazon files to develop tape library data center outside London, UK Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 12 Mar 2026 Aligned tops out Maryland data center Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 10475 Solomons Island Road 10485 Solomons Island Road 10495 Solomons Island Road 1650 Calvert Cliffs Parkway AWS Amazon Web Services Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant Calvert County Constellation Constellation Energy Maryland Natelli Holdings Nuclear Comments