Google buys land for data center in Botetourt County, Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Google buys land for data center in Botetourt County, Virginia Reportedly pays $14m for plot June 25, 2025 By Matthew Gooding Have your say Google has spent $14 million to buy a plot of land for a data center development in Botetourt County, Virginia. County officials announced the deal for the 312-acre site at the Botetourt Center industrial park, Greenfield, on Tuesday. The land is already zoned for industrial and data center use, and the Botetourt County Board of Supervisors (BOS) and the Economic Development Authority (EDA) has agreed to a 20-year tax deal with Google, details of which have not been disclosed. The Botetourt Center – Botetourt County Virginia Business reports that the search and cloud giant paid $14 million for the land, and has agreed to spend $4 million on community projects in Botetourt. “We are always looking for communities that have the innovative and collaborative leadership necessary to bring complex projects like data center campuses to life, and we are optimistic about the partnership we’ve built so far with Botetourt and the entire Roanoke region,” said Amber Tillman, Google’s head of data center public affairs for North America. “Together, we’re hopeful to help drive economic development across the region and continue to support Botetourt County’s thriving community.” Google will bear any costs relating to bringing utilities to the site. The Botetourt Center is an industrial area home to a host of different companies, including cooling system firm Munters. “This transformational project will relieve the pressure for further economic development in Botetourt County and will allow us to continue our deep support of community needs like public safety and education, while reducing pressure on the taxpayer,” said Botetourt County Board of Supervisors chairwoman Amy White. “I am pleased that this project offers long-term benefits like great jobs for our STEM students. It brings big tax revenue without disrupting the rural character we all value here in Botetourt and allows us to balance progress with preservation. The Botetourt Center at Greenfield is a great fit for Google and Botetourt County's future.” Botetourt County is west of the city of Lynchburg near the border between Virginia and West Virginia. According to Data Center Map, the county is not currently home to any data centers. More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 11 Feb 2026 Trump admin pushes data center companies to commit to pact on energy prices and water usage Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 02 Apr 2026 Poolside seeks partners for data center in Texas after CoreWeave deal falls apart Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Botetourt County Google Virginia Comments