Sabey breaks ground on third building at Ashburn, Virginia, campus - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Sabey breaks ground on third building at Ashburn, Virginia, campus Could offer up to 54MW June 26, 2025 By Matthew Gooding Have your say Sabey Data Centers has broken ground on a third building at its Ashburn, Virginia, campus. Construction has started on Building A, the third and final data center at the campus, which will deliver an initial 18MW of IT capacity, with the potential to grow to 54MW in the future. The data center is expected to be in service by 2026. Sabey's Ashburn, Virginia, campus – Sabey "Starting construction on Building A marks a significant milestone for Sabey Data Centers as we continue to expand our presence in Northern Virginia," said Tim Mirick, president of Sabey Data Centers. "This development will create significant additional capacity and room for our customers to efficiently and sustainably scale. " The new data center will feature a range of cooling set-ups, catering for air-cooled, liquid-cooled, and hybrid environments, and accommodate densities of up to 100kW per rack. Sabey's Ashburn campus spans 38 acres and, upon full build-out, will offer a total campus capacity of 85 MW. Located in Loudoun County, at the heart of Northern Virginia, the world's busiest data center market, the first data center at the site came online in 2017 , and it has been growing ever since. The current buildings average an annualized Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) of 1.35, the company said. A joint venture between Sabey Corporation and National Real Estate Advisors, Sabey Data Centers operates more than 4 million sq ft of data centers across the US, with six data center sites across the US in Quincy , Seattle, and East Wenatchee, Washington; New York City ; Austin , Texas; and Ashburn , Virginia. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 22 Jan 2026 'First-of-its-kind' 50MW SMR-powered data center planned in Uzbekistan Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 13 Nov 2025 Google inks 100MW solar PPA with Treaty Oak in Grant County, Arkansas Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Ashburn Northern Virginia Sabey Data Centers Comments