Southfield residents voice concerns over proposed data center at packed meeting Lost WXYZ or WMYD on Comcast Xfinity? Here's how to keep watching News Data Centers Actions Facebook Tweet Email Southfield residents voice concerns over proposed data center at packed council meeting Prev Next Dozens of Southfield residents packed city council chambers Monday night to voice their opinions about a proposed two-story data center planned for Inkster Road near 11 Mile Road. By: Carli Petrus Posted and last updated Carli Petrus Carli Petrus is your Downriver community reporter. Connect with her at Carli.Petrus@wxyz.com. SOUTHFIELD, Mich. (WXYZ) — Dozens of Southfield residents packed city council chambers Monday night to voice their opinions about a proposed two-story data center planned for Inkster Road near 11 Mile Road. The developer, MetroBloks LLC, wants to build a 109,000-square-foot facility in the area. While the company was not present at Monday's meeting, they presented their plans to council last week. Watch Carli Petrus' video report below: Southfield residents voice concerns over proposed data center at packed council meeting Council President Charles Hicks said data centers are not new to Southfield, which currently hosts about nine such facilities. "For decades, our city has supported both large and small data centers as part of the broader technology ecosystem that serves residents, local businesses, hospitals and regional institutions," Hicks said. WXYZ Despite the city's experience with data centers, many residents expressed concerns about the latest proposal. Sherry Evanscafe, who lives within walking distance of the proposed site, addressed council with worries about noise and economic impact. "I'm asking council to protect our neighborhoods," Evanscafe said. "If the data center proposal is adopted that this area will be protected from pollution, noise and disruption." Related video: Lyon Township residents blindsided by AI data center approval near homes Proposed AI data center in Lyon Township draws controversy Her concerns were shared by other residents during the public comment period. "I would add a no to an additional data center," one resident said. "I am absolutely opposed to the data centers," another added. Related video: Macomb County residents pack zoning meeting to oppose proposed data center Macomb County residents pack zoning meeting to oppose proposed data center However, not all nearby residents oppose the project. One man who lives on Inkster Road directly across from the proposed site said he supports it, though he has concerns about increased traffic on the already busy road. "We have a better chance at having the infrastructure here across the street than they do out in Howell and Brighton and places like that. That's going to have to be totally set up in my opinion," he said. WXYZ Hicks called the project a long-term investment for Southfield and emphasized that public input is a key part of the decision-making process. The proposed data center would be significantly smaller than others proposed across the state. MetroBloks LLC did not respond to requests for comment. ————— This story was reported on-air by a journalist and has been converted to this platform with the assistance of AI. Our editorial team verifies all reporting on all platforms for fairness and accuracy. Television Lost WXYZ or WMYD on Comcast Xfinity? Here's how to keep watching