Fibernet CEO eyes multi-gigawatt data center campus in Utah - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Fibernet CEO eyes multi-gigawatt data center campus in Utah Fibernet MercuryDelta still looking to use the Intermountain Power Plant as basis of off-grid campus June 13, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A large data center campus may be coming to Millard County, Utah. Fibernet MercuryDelta, LLC has filed a request to rezone 1,143.8 acres of property located at approximately 4500 E & HWY 50 Delta from Agriculture 20 (Ag-20) to Heavy Industrial (HI) for a potential data center development. The Millard County commission voted in favor of the rezoning, following the planning commission’s recommendation in May. The Intermountain Power Plant in Utah – Intermountain Power Agency Founded in 1994, fiber and colocation firm Fibernet offers Internet services in Utah. The company also offers colocation from sites in Salt Lake City and in facility in Santa Clara, California via OpenColo. Fibernet built its own 40,000 sq ft data center facility in 2002 just south of Salt Lake City in Orem. Fibernet had tried to acquire a coal plant in Utah around 2022 and 2023 alongside carbon capture firm Enchant Energy in order to develop a data center, with plans to continue the Intermountain Power Power (IPP) plant's operations beyond 2025. On a separate website, Fibernet MercuryDelta describes itself as a developer of off-grid data centers. The company suggests developing a 2GW, 20 million sq ft data center campus, relying on the 1.9GW IPP plant. The company says the site is expandable to 10GW and would feature 500MW of battery storage - expandable to 5GW+. It's unclear if the company has made any deals around the IPP. Fibernet MercuryDelta was co-founded by Fibernet CEO Lane Livingstone and Creekstone Capital CEO Ray Conley. The Intermountain Power Plant is a large coal-fired power plant in the city of Delta. Commissioned in 1984, the site is scheduled for replacement in 2025 with an 840MW natural gas plant – work is underway on the gas generator. However, it seems local officials are minded to keep the coal plant running for longer . The municipal-owned Intermountain Power Agency recently said it would be exploring deploying nuclear assets at the site. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 27 Oct 2025 Brazil's Tecto expands in Ceará with the launch of 20MW Mega Lobster data center in Fortaleza Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America North America data center report 28 Nov 2025 Microsoft's Climate Fund makes investment into peatland restoration firm Pantheon Regeneration Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Creekstone Capital Delta Fibernet Fibernet MercuryDelta Intermountain Power Agency Intermountain Power Plant Lane Livingstone Millard County Off-Grid Ray Conley Utah coal Comments