QTS plans 15-building data center campus in Madison, Wisconsin - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel QTS plans 15-building data center campus in Madison, Wisconsin Company eyes Badger State after talks with Alliant Energy July 14, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say QTS is planning a new data center near Madison, Wisconsin. As reported by WPR , the Blackstone-owned developer recently scheduled a public meeting about a proposed data center development near Vienna in Dane County, some 15 miles north of Madison. – QTS As many as 15 buildings could be developed, with three to five built in the initial phase. Each building would require an investment of around $300-500 million. Further details weren’t shared, but the project is listed on QTS’ website. According to WPR, Tag Greason, the company’s co-CEO, said the company started looking at Wisconsin after working with Alliant Energy on a separate project in Iowa. “In that relationship, we were made aware of their ability to deliver power in Wisconsin,” Greason said. “Then we said, ‘OK, let’s start to look at opportunities that would meet the land requirements and the workforce requirements.’ And we were able to identify some land in Vienna.” Local officials declined to comment further to WPR. Madison Region Economic Partnership has said it supports QTS’ proposals. Wisconsin doesn’t have a huge data center market, but the likes of Microsoft, Meta, and Vantage are developing in the Badger State. Ark (formerly Involta), TierPoint, 1547 CSR, and Expedient are also present in the state. Founded in 2003 and owned by Blackstone since 2021, QTS has dozens of data centers in operation and development across the US, UK, Netherlands, and Spain. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: The New Physics of US Data Center Infrastructure 21 Apr 2026 NTT plans 200MW data center campus outside Tokyo Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 20 Nov 2025 US coal power plants must stay online for as long as possible to meet AI demand - Southern Company CEO Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Alliant Energy Dane County Madison QTS Vienna Wisconsin Comments