Atlas named as developer on Project Sassy in Rome, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Atlas named as developer on Project Sassy in Rome, Georgia Plans first surfaced in January this year February 11, 2025 By Niva Yadav Have your say Atlas has been named as the developer on Project Sassy in Rome, Georgia. The data center development was first announced earlier this year . – Google Maps Located on a 178-acre plot between Plainville Road and Ga.53, Atlas is now seeking a rezoning from suburban residential to heavy industrial use. Further details of the development remain unknown. Update : As reported by NorthWest Georgia News , Atlas has submitted a planning permission application that suggests seven buildings could be developed. The buildings are set to offer around 72MW each across 300,000-379,000 sq ft; the campus could total 504MW across 2.49 million sq ft. Atlas is also interested in adding 15 acres to the existing plot, which is owned by the Development Authority of Floyd County and the Rome-Floyd County Development Authority. The Floyd County Planning Commission will make a decision on February 25, according to county filings . Atlas is developing another data center in Georgia. Announced in January this year, the company is planning a 13-building data center campus in Atlanta, known as Project Sail. Rome is located in Floyd County, northeast Georgia, close to the state border with Alabama, and around 70 miles from the state's existing data center hub in Atlanta. This is the third data center planned for Floyd County. In October 2023 , Microsoft purchased 347 acres of land outside Rome near Huffaker Road for a data center build, investing $1 billion in the project. A second project was revealed last month; a 114-acre development next to Coosa High School a few miles away from the Microsoft site. Specifications of the campus and the company behind the project haven’t been shared yet. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 13 Feb 2026 2MW AI data center pitched in Ontario, Canada Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 25 Feb 2026 Tower trespasser arrested in North Carolina Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Atlas Development LLC Floyd County Floyd County Planning Commission Georgia Plainville Road Project Sassy Rome Rome Floyd County Development Authority Comments