Aligned announces plans for 100MW data center in Salt Lake City, Utah - DCD Home News Construction & Site Selection Aligned announces plans for 100MW data center in Salt Lake City, Utah Company to develop fourth facility in the area June 23, 2022 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Aligned is developing another data center in the Salt Lake City area of Utah. The company this week announced further expansion in the Salt Lake City market with the planned development of SLC-03, a new data center on its campus in West Jordan, Utah. – Aligned The project will add more than 100MW of capacity to the campus, more than double what is offered currently across SLC-01 and SLC-02. The new facility will the company’s patented Delta³ cooling technology and a waterless heat rejection system. “Our newest build-to-scale customer requires not only rapid construction timelines to keep pace with their accelerated growth, but seamlessly scalable, sustainable infrastructure that supports their environmental commitments, which are some of the most aggressive in the world,” said Andrew Schaap, CEO of Aligned. “This is our fourth hyperscale data center in the Salt Lake City metro area – a market we entered just three-and-a-half years ago. Our expansion in the Silicon Slopes is a testament to Aligned’s continuous ability to deliver critical capacity quickly – wherever our customers require it.” "We are thrilled with Aligned Data Centers’ expansion announcement," added City of West Jordan Mayor, Dirk Burton. "The significant investment they are making in the City of West Jordan has a tremendous impact on our community.” Aligned opened its SLC-02 facility on the same campus in March 2021. The facility, built on a greenfield site, has 48MW power, expandable to 60MW, and 240,000 sq ft (22,300 sqm) of space. SLC-01, renovated in 2018, spans 300,000 sq ft (27,900 sqm) and has 34MW of capacity. As well as the three-facility campus, Aligned this year completed the first phase of a build-to-suit data center in the Salt Lake Metro Area known as SLC-04. Aligned is also planning a facility at Quantum Loophole’s gigawatt campus in Maryland; earthworks and installation of water and power ducts began this week. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection HP SitePrint for data centers 20 Mar 2026 Fluidstack drops data center projects in France to focus on US - report Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in Colocation & Wholesale NTT Global Data Centers Guide to India data center expansion 03 Feb 2026 BESS company Redelfi strikes deal to build four data centers in Italy 19 Jan 2026 New Era closes acquisition of Sharon AI's stake in Texas Critical Data Centers Tags Aligned Data Centers West Jordan Aligned Energy Utah Aligned SLC-03 Salt Lake City Comments