$125M data center moves forward on massive Austin tech project MySA Logo Hearst Newspapers Logo Skip to main content Business Massive Texas tech hub makes progress with new $125M data center The project broke ground last year. By Cristela Jones , Austin Trending Reporter Sep 4, 2025 Interior of a data center server room. SEM VAN DER WAL/ANP/AFP via Getty Images "Austin’s Next Tech Megaproject" is making headway in a suburb outside of Texas' Capital City. A massive tech hub projected to bring billions into a growing Central Texas county has now set new multimillion-dollar plans for construction. Skybox Datacenters LLC is building another $125 million data center in Hutto, according to a new Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation filing . This is a part of SkyBox's new "PowerCampus Austin," a six-building campus expected to be the company's largest data center campus yet. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Skybox's "PowerCampus Austin" is a 600-megawatt hub located on about 160 acres of land with six buildings totaling around 3.9 million square-feet. Once fully built, it's expected to boost Williamson County's economy by $4 to $5 billion, WilCo Judge Bill Gravel previously told the Austin Business Journal. Skybox broke ground on the mammoth-sized campus last year with a $163 million data center in Hutto. Construction on the first data center was slated to be completed by June, and this latest TDLR filing reveals the company will soon start constructing "building 2." More For You H-E-B takes on California rival in top US grocery store visits Some call it a cult. We just call it a Texas lifestyle. First-of-its-kind thrift store opens in San Antonio. What to know With 10,000 new items out daily, get ready for a whole lot of new secondhand inventory in the Alamo City. Sam’s Club plans $7.7M revamp for 40-year-old South TX location It's one of the oldest Sam's Clubs in South Texas. Now, it's about to undergo a major digitally-focused transformation. Wilderness off-road model continues in Subaru’s Outback lineup for 2026 As Subaru’s flagship Outback wagon moves into its newest generation for 2026, the special Wilderness model continues in the lineup. 100-plus data centers now span the Hill Country. Here's where Tech giants are pouring billions into the Texas Hill Country and reshaping a region locals have long fought to protect. The scope of work for the new 234,820-square-foot building includes "interior building improvements, hot aisle containment for the project's data center cabinets, electrical busways feeding (DC) direct current cabinets, cable tray routing, and a second story office space." Advertisement Article continues below this ad Skybox's "Building 2" data center will be slightly smaller than "Building 1" by about 900 feet. Construction is expected to begin by October 1, and is estimated to be completed by June 2026. MySA Logo Want more MySA? Make us a Preferred Source on Google to see more of us when you search. Add Preferred Source Headquartered in Dallas, Skybox Datacenters is a leading national data center developer and owner with a focus on hyperscale, colocation, and cloud solutions, according to its website . Companies typically use data centers as a physical location to store and manage critical cloud data, servers and other IT infrastructure used to power devices. Advertisement Article continues below this ad PowerCampus is the latest product from Skybox Datacenters tailored to clients across major and emerging U.S. markets. Skybox currently has five data centers in Chicago, Austin (PowerCampus and Legacy Campus), Dallas (PowerCampus), and Houston. Sep 4, 2025 Cristela Jones Austin Trending Reporter Cristela is a San Antonio-born Austinite covering all things trending and cultura in the state’s capital city. She holds an M.A. in journalism from the University of Texas at Austin and a B.S. in electronic media from Texas State University. Her work has appeared in Bloomberg News, NPR's Next Generation Radio, KUT y más. Most Popular 1 . Wemby unavailable for Game 3, still recovering from concussion 2 . Large hail, severe storms could hit San Antonio this weekend 3 . Rare aquifer tour opens at Texas' largest cave near San Antonio 4 . First-of-its-kind thrift store opens in San Antonio. What to know 5 . Major $4.5M upgrade coming to luxury Texas Hill Country resort Best Of Readers' Choice YourSA 2026 winners are here! Did your faves win? Explore the best in San Antonio for dining, beauty, entertainment and more. Readers' Choice The best tax services in San Antonio File smarter, not harder, with help from the people who actually read the fine print. Readers' Choice These private schools in San Antonio are kid-tested, parent-approved According to locals, these are the schools worth touring. Readers' Choice The best foundation repair companies in San Antonio Your dream home deserves a solid foundation. Readers' Choice The best med spas in San Antonio To look your best, you’ve got to work with the best. Puzzles The classic newspaper crossword gets a makeover Our new award-winning games from Puzzmo are a free, modern twist on the classic newspaper crossword... Puzzles Cross|word An approachable redesign to a classic, featuring exclusive weekday puzzles. Puzzles Flipart A quick daily flip. Finally someone cracked the code on digital jigsaw puzzles. Puzzles SpellTower Word search but with strategy. Clearing the board feels really good. Puzzles Really Bad Chess A random board...sure. Three queens and seven knights… why not? Enjoy this modern take on the... Puzzles Typeshift Anagrams with a literal twist. Getting the last word is always possible, rarely easy. Shopping Shopping This AeroPress Go coffee maker is 25% off for Cyber Monday Shopping This new YETI bottle is on sale for Cyber Monday: Get 30% off Shopping Save up to 20% on select Weber grills with this limited-time Cyber Monday sale Editor's Pick How to challenge Bexar County property taxes Houston and Texas Former TX reporter opens up about parents' killings Travel George Strait road trip: What to do on the way to Lubbock Shopping The best camping gear storage solutions Let's Play