Minnesota company plans data center park for eastern Jasper County Advertisement Advertisement Return to Homepage Top Stories: DOJ revives firing squads Golden orb ocean discovery Netanyahu cancer diagnosis $400K Maduro capture bet Israel-Lebanon ceasefire Oklahoma tornado ICE and Border Patrol funding Medical marijuana reclassification Navy secretary ousted Judge blocks Va. voting maps SARCOXIE, Mo. — A Minnesota technology firm is planning a data center and solar energy park on land south of Missouri Highway 96 and west of La Russell and County Route U in eastern Jasper County. Geronimo Power, based in Bloomington, Minnesota, confirmed to The Joplin Globe in an email that it is evaluating eastern Jasper County for what it called a “hyperscale data center,” and a large solar energy and battery park to help power the data center. “We have been in the local area developing a new solar and battery project,” Lindsay Smith, vice president for external affairs and communications with the company, said in an email to the Globe. “We are in very early stages of developing a data center in the Jasper County area, and we have just begun conversations with local officials, landowners and community members. We are working together to design a project that works in this local area.” Advertisement Advertisement The project will be located near Liberty's La Russell Energy Center on Fir Road just west of La Russell. The park will house a number of data centers. Geronimo Power said the actual size of the data center park and solar battery farm are not known at this time. “The area south of the LaRussell Energy Center is currently being evaluated for the data center, and the solar project is planned just north of the LaRussell Energy Center,” Smith said. “We are very early in the process and excited to engage the local community and stakeholders. We are committed to being transparent in the process and encourage local feedback to help steer the project design and aesthetics.” Geronimo representatives met with the Sarcoxie City Council at its March 3 meeting to let them know about the project. The project is outside Sarcoxie city limits, so the mayor and council have no say on it. Advertisement Advertisement Rhys Hine, a resident who owns land within about a half a mile of the site, said a co-worker was attending that meeting and alerted him to the project. He said the co-worker sent a map the company displayed at the meeting showing the locations of the solar farm and hyperscale data center. Hine posted the information and picture of the map on Facebook and has since started a change.com petition and a public Facebook group called “Say No to Data Centers: Keep Jasper and Lawrence Counties Rural," that has 679 members in its first week of existence. “My co-worker came to me at work and was like, 'Hey, this is what I found out. I know you own property out here so you would want to know.' He showed me a picture of the map that they had brought with them. From there, I think it was a couple days later a representative from Geronimo actually went out to my in-laws' place between County Road 20 and County Road 10 on Dogwood, and we talked with him there. And then he kind of gave us like the sales pitch, and I kind of sat on it for a few days. Then that's when I decided to make the Facebook post.” Advertisement Advertisement Hine said he contacted state Rep. Ann Kelley, who represents the area, and Jasper County Eastern District Commissioner Jimmy Morris to make sure they were aware of the project. Morris said Geronimo Power told commissioners they were looking at building a solar power and battery farm near La Russell in a meeting a few months ago. “Then at the very beginning of March they met with us to let us know they were pursuing a data center development south of the La Russell Energy Center and they were going to talk to landowners in the area,” Morris said. “The county commission, because we don’t have zoning in Jasper County, there’s not a lot the commissioners have a say in regarding this project. Since we have no zoning, our main role is just being an advocate. We want to make sure that whether it's a road agreement or decommissioning agreement, and obviously that’s going to be a lot of construction, so we’re making sure we’re taking care of the roads, trying to avoid having county residents being taken advantage of and being a voice. I’ve talked to a number of folks that are opposed to the data center, but they are very clear that if zoning was the only way to try to stop it, they would still not be in favor of zoning.” For more information on the project, people can go to Geronimo Power’s website at https://geronimopower.com/in-development/jasper-county-powered-data-park . View comments About Our Ads Recommended articles QBs Carson Beck, Drew Allar were surprise NFL Draft selections for most. Here's what their paths look like for getting playing time Allar's selection has no impact whatsoever on the team's hope that Aaron Rodgers returns for 2026. As for Beck, among the first three QBs drafted, you could argue he is the winner in terms of surrounding pieces and potential immediate opportunity. Yahoo Sports Blazers star Deni Avdija has tooth chipped by Spurs' De'Aaron Fox, then gets called for a foul Deni Avdija has a visit to the dentist in his future. Yahoo Sports Wordle hints today for #1,771: Clues and answer for Saturday, April 25 Does Saturday's Wordle (#1,771) have you stumped? Here are some hints and the answer. Yahoo Tech As No. 57 pick in 2026 NFL Draft, Logan Jones receives lifetime supply of Heinz ketchup "Let's go, ketchup!" the Iowa lineman said after being selected by the Chicago Bears and learning of his lifetime gift. Yahoo Sports I watched my dad slowly die on 'The Pitt' Amy Scarlata watched her father, Ron Scarlata, die on "The Pitt" — and says her family's morbid sense of humor helped. Yahoo Entertainment Bronny James scores first NBA playoff points, with some help from LeBron, in Lakers' win over Rockets Bronny got a screen and an assist from his father on his first two baskets of the postseason. Yahoo Sports Where to watch San Antonio Spurs vs. Portland Trail Blazers Game 3 NBA playoffs: Live stream, start time, TV channel, odds for Friday, April 24 The Trail Blazers take on the Spurs in Game 3 of their first-round playoff series. Yahoo Sports Nikola Jokić vs. Rudy Gobert and the domino effect that has the Nuggets in danger. Is Denver done? The Nuggets are down 2-1 and on the road in Minnesota for a pivotal Game 4. How did we get here? One domino at a time. Yahoo Sports The 15 best affordable Mother's day gifts to give Mom this year — all under $50 A Bogg Bag look-alike, sparkly Kate Spade studs and more top finds that only look expensive. Yahoo Shopping Where to watch Los Angeles Lakers vs. Houston Rockets Game 3 NBA playoffs: Live stream, start time, TV channel, odds for Friday, April 24 LeBron James and the Lakers take on the Rockets in Game 3 of their first-round playoff series. Yahoo Sports Advertisement