Aligned to develop 200-acre data center campus in Coshocton, Ohio - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Aligned to develop 200-acre data center campus in Coshocton, Ohio Company plans multi-building campus near former power plant site July 26, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Aligned Data Centers has announced plans to develop a data center campus in Central Ohio. The company this week announced plans to expand in Central Ohio with the development of a data center campus inside the Conesville Industrial Park in Coshocton. Coshocton is located approximately 63 miles (101 km) northeast of Columbus. – Aligned Aligned will develop a 197-acre parcel adjacent to the former AEP Conesville Power Plant. Renderings suggest up to four buildings could be developed. The multi-billion-dollar project has secured a foundational customer for its first data center, targeting initial capacity delivery mid-2026. "Through this strategic expansion, Aligned not only reinforces its commitment to providing future-ready digital infrastructure in vital growth markets, but also directly catalyzes billions of dollars in investment for the state of Ohio and the Coshocton County community,” said Aligned’s CEO, Andrew Schaap. "We are proud to see this investment revitalize a critical legacy site. It lays a powerful foundation, drawing new industries, creating high-quality jobs, and unlocking significant future opportunities for Southeast Ohio." News that Aligned had bought land in the Conesville Industrial Park in Coshocton County from the Frontier Group of Companies (FGC) surfaced last month . Formerly a 2GW coal power plant operated by American Electric Power, the site ceased operations in 2020 after more than 60 years. FGC acquired the plant in 2020, turning it into a 2,500-acre industrial park. Aligned has campuses in Chicago , Illinois; Dallas , Texas; Salt Lake City , Utah; Phoenix , Arizona; and Northern Virginia . The company has further sites in development in Maryland , Ohio , Illinois , and Virginia . This is Aligned’s third data center campus in Ohio. The company’s existing in-development site in Ohio is located further north outside Sandusky, between Toledo and Cleveland. The company announced it had acquired a 129-acre land parcel in Perkins Township, Erie County, in September 2023 , and broke ground on the site in May 2024 . At full build-out, the Sandusky campus will host four buildings. Aligned’s website says the NEO-01 data center will total 96MW across 200,000 sq ft (18,580 sqm). The acquired property was a former automotive equipment manufacturing facility originally built by New Departure (later merged with General Motors) around 1947. The company has also previously acquired another 90 acres of land in Ohio in Pataskala , a city in Licking County located east of Columbus and south of New Albany. It is yet to comment on any development plans there. Subscribe to our daily newsletters Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter series. More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 26 Nov 2025 UK data centers can be considered "nationally significant infrastructure projects" under new legislation Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 24 Feb 2026 EQT-backed Scale acquires powered land for data centers company Reload Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Aligned Aligned Data Centers Conesville Industrial Park Coshocton Coshocton County Ohio Comments