New York Bitcoin Miners Are Buying Up Power Plants—and Communities Are Fighting Back - Inside Climate News Skip to content Donate Open Menu New York is home to four of the largest bitcoin mines in the country , which consume huge quantities of electric power and water to cool their server farms, emit loud humming noises around the clock and flood the atmosphere with copious greenhouse gases and pollutants. In many cases, they are also driving nearby residents crazy. “I’m probably within a mile and a half of the facility, and I can hear it,” said Erin Robinson, a sociology professor at Canisius University in Buffalo who lives close to a bitcoin mine near the New York border with Canada. “It’s a low hum that just kind of sits in your ears.” Bitcoin, the largest and best-known cryptocurrency, is managed by a decentralized network of bitcoin users. A network algorithm assigns each transaction a unique random identifying code, which bitcoin “mines” derive by operating powerful computers day and night, running an endless series of random numbers to break those codes. Newsletters We deliver climate news to your inbox like nobody else. Every day or once a week, our original stories and digest of the web’s top headlines deliver the full story, for free. ICN Weekly Saturdays Our #1 newsletter delivers the week’s climate and energy news – our original stories and top headlines from around the web. Get ICN Weekly Inside Clean Energy Thursdays Dan Gearino’s habit-forming weekly take on how to understand the energy transformation reshaping our world. Get Inside Clean Energy Today’s Climate Tuesdays A once-a-week digest of the most pressing climate-related news, written by Kiley Price and released every Tuesday. Get Today’s Climate Breaking News Don’t miss a beat. Get a daily email of our original, groundbreaking stories written by our national network of award-winning reporters. Get Breaking News ICN Sunday Morning Go behind the scenes with executive editor Vernon Loeb and ICN reporters as they discuss one of the week’s top stories. Get ICN Sunday Morning Justice & Health A digest of stories on the inequalities that worsen the impacts of climate change on vulnerable communities. Get Justice & Health Email Address I agree to the terms of service and privacy policy . Once a correct code is reached, confirming a transaction, which happens on average across the network every 10 minutes, a bitcoin miner receives 3.125 newly minted bitcoins (each worth around $95,000), which is the fee for helping maintain the network and keep it secure. The energy use for these operations is very high—which means the price of electricity governs where these mines are located. Some bitcoin miners are attracted to New York for its cheap electricity—many Northern towns that border Canada have low rates due to abundant hydropower. But others are enticed by the state’s decommissioned or low-use power plants, which they buy and connect to their computers, often running those power plants all day, every day. Two different bitcoin mines have set up their operations in small Northwestern New York towns, and bought local “peaker” gas plants—power plants that only operate during times of peak demand. When miners bought these plants, they drastically increased operations at the gas plants, ultimately increasing greenhouse gas emissions. These mines are made up of hundreds of computers—and they all run hot. Numerous large fans are used to cool down the servers, which are often very loud for local residents. Cold freshwater is also used to cool the computers. The water consumption of bitcoin mines is understudied, but concerning to many experts . In these small New York communities, the resistance to these bitcoin mines has been stark and wide-ranging, employing multiple different levers in local and state governance. “Crypto mines exploit all of the distributed impacts in a way that has made it really hard to regulate and hard for communities to understand,” said Mandy DeRoche, a deputy managing attorney with Earthjustice that has fought the sale of these power plants to bitcoin miners in court. An Energy-Intensive Operation The amount of energy that bitcoin mines—or more broadly cryptocurrency mines—use is relatively obscured. In early 2024, under former President Biden, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) was directed to collect data from 130 identified commercial cryptocurrency miners operating in the U.S., but the survey is still ongoing. As of last year, the EIA puts cryptocurrency’s energy usage at anywhere between 0.6 percent to 2.3 percent of U.S. electricity consumption . In New York, the energy for bitcoin mining usually comes from either the electric grid, operated by the New York Independent System Operator, or a power plant that the miners own. Greenidge Generation, a power plant off the coast of Seneca Lake near Dresden, New York, was initially a coal-fired plant but had been operating as a gas “peaker” plant since 2017, after it was acquired by Atlas Holdings LLC in 2014. In March 2020, a bitcoin mine adjacent to the power plant began operations . “The Greenidge facility actually became the test case for how 49 other underutilized or decommissioned power plants across the state could turn to bitcoin or cryptocurrency mining and be resurrected,” said Yvonne Taylor, who lives next to Seneca Lake and is the vice president of Seneca Lake Guardian, an organization that works to preserve the Finger Lakes. A view of the Greenidge Generation Bitcoin mining facility along Seneca Lake in Dresden, N.Y. Credit: Lauren Petracca/Earthjustice Power plants that operate in New York must obtain an air permit from the state’s Department of Environmental Conservation every five years. Greenidge Generation’s permit expired in 2021, and as it made its way through the renewal process, the company shared data on its energy generation activities. According to the company, it produced 203,918 megawatts of electricity for the state grid in 2018, when it was still operating as a peaker plant. In 2020, when it began to expand its operations into bitcoin mining, it still supplied 215,588 megawatts to the grid, but also produced an additional 132,215 megawatts for bitcoin mining, meaning the plant would have to run much more often. In 2022, New York State Governor Kathy Hochul signed into law a two-year moratorium on air permits for fossil fuel power plants that serve cryptocurrency mines. Greenidge was grandfathered in because it had submitted its application for a renewal air permit before the law went into effect. In June of that same year, however, the Department of Environmental Conservation still denied the renewal of Greenidge Generation’s air permit , saying that its continued operation would be inconsistent with the State’s Climate Act, which sets stringent greenhouse gas emissions limits over the next two decades. Since it began its cryptocurrency mining operations, Greenidge Generation has been emitting more greenhouse gases. According to court filings , the plant’s projected total emissions from 2022 through 2026 “is more than six times the emissions the facility was producing, on average, prior to shifting to cryptocurrency mining operations.” Since its air permit renewal was denied, Greenidge Generation has gone through multiple cycles of appeals, and all the while it continues to run its power plant. The plant is legally allowed to continue operating until the last day of the application process, which includes appeals and further reviews, under the State Administrative Procedures Act. Seneca Lake Guardian and other community groups oppose the company’s appeals in court, represented by Earthjustice. “They’re behaving like a petulant, rich child, because they don’t like the answer that they get,” said Taylor. “At some point they’re going to exhaust their options, and I am confident that we will prevail.” Bitcoin Mines—Loud, Thirsty and Polluting When a bitcoin mine moves into a small commun