Karis Critical purchases 115 acres for data center in New Albany, Ohio - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Karis Critical purchases 115 acres for data center in New Albany, Ohio Also details plans for data center in the Hoffman Estates area of Chicago September 03, 2025 By Georgia Butler Have your say Data center developer Karis Critical has purchased 115 acres of land in New Albany, Ohio. Consisting of seven parcels, the land is located at 4500 Beech Road NW, along Route 62, reports Columbus Business First . 4500 Beech Road NW – Google Maps Sold to Karis by Deborah Tripp and Sharon Smart, the land was previously approved for rezoning and annexation in July 2025. According to city documents, Karis will build a data center on the plot, but details have not yet been shared. Karis describes itself as an investor in land, energy, and infrastructure for data centers, but does not operate the facilities once completed. The company similarly purchased land in the Hoffman Estates area of Chicago, Illinois, earlier this year. No development plans were submitted for that site at the time, but the company has since said it would build two data center buildings at the site over two phases, as well as a new substation, according to the Daily Herald . Each building is expected to span 211,000 sq ft (19,602 sqm). Phase I will have 36MW of capacity. Once completed, the Hoffman Estates site is expected to bring in $998,000 in annual property tax revenue to the local area. A single tenant is expected to take over the facility. Last year, the company filed to develop a nine-building campus outside Chicago in Merrillville , Northwest Indiana. Karis Critical is also developing a data center in DeKalb , Illinois. On its website, Karis’ portfolio includes more than 500 acres across two sites around Chicago; 200 acres across two sites in Colorado; 1,600 acres across four sites in Ohio; and a 200-acre site in South Carolina. As well as Karis Critical, CEO Jake Finley also founded and leads Karis Capital and cold storage firm Karis Cold. New Albany is just outside of Columbus, Ohio, a major data center hotspot. According to DataCenterMap, around 120 data centers are located in Columbus. Operators in and around the area – with many largely clustered in New Albany – include EdgeConneX, Microsoft, Google, Amazon, Meta, Edged, CyrusOne, QTS, Stack, and others. More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 03 Dec 2025 Actis launches Latam-focused data center business Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 30 Mar 2026 Oppidan data center outside Minneapolis rejected Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 4500 Beech Road NW Chicago Hoffman Estates Karis Critical New Albany Ohio Comments