Prologis details plans for data center campus outside Cincinnati, Ohio - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Prologis details plans for data center campus outside Cincinnati, Ohio Project Mila to total four buildings and 880,000 sq ft March 05, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Industrial real estate giant Prologis has detailed plans for a data center development outside Cincinnati, Ohio. Prologis acquired 141 acres in Butler County from the City of Trenton for $7.7 million in October . The company’s plans for the project were unclear, though a purchase agreement described a potential for a one million sq ft (92,905 sqm) data center. – Prologis | City of Trenton Now, as reported by BizJournals and WCPO , Prologis has outlined more detailed plans for the development, known as Project Mila. According to information shared during a public meeting this week, the campus will include four 220,000 sq ft (20,438 sqm) single-story buildings and an on-site substation. Ground preparation works have started already, but development is yet to receive full city approval. Construction on the first building could start later this year for a 2028 launch, with all four buildings complete by 2029. Prologis representatives told the meeting that the company would pay for the costs to upgrade the area infrastructure. The site, located around a mile south of downtown Trenton in the Trenton Industrial Park, is located off Woodsdale Road, east of Molson Coors’ Trenton Brewery. Trenton is around 30 miles north of downtown Cincinnati. “City staff are continuing to review the submission for compliance with all applicable City codes and regulations. The project site is located within the City's Industrial General (IG) zoning district,” the City of Trenton said on Facebook . “Based on information, the project is expected to use approximately 15 million gallons of water annually, though all details remain subject to ongoing review and verification.” A Change.org petition against the proposals has garnered 85 signatures at the time of writing. Elsewhere in Butler County, industrial development firm Logistix was granted planning approval for a data center project in Hamilton in 2024. Logistics and industrial real estate giant Prologis began expanding further into the data center sector in recent years. Many of the company’s data center developments to date have been focused on building out existing landholdings, but the firm has been acquiring greenfield sites as well. Prologis says it has some 5.2GW of power committed by utilities or in advanced stages of negotiations. The company is targeting up to 10GW of capacity over the next 10 years. The company has current and planned developments in Illinois , Virginia , Georgia , California , Indiana , and Texas in the US, as well as Paris , France. More in Construction & Site Selection Hong Kong: Asia’s connectivity hub 21 Jan 2026 AT&T-occupied data center up for sale in Alpharetta, Georgia Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 12 Feb 2026 AI is driving a networking evolution Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Butler County Cincinnati Ohio Project Mila Prologis Trenton Trenton Industrial Park Comments