York County to host $5 billion data center in Peach Bottom LOCAL York County to host $5 billion data center in Peach Bottom Anthony Maenza York Dispatch July 18, 2025, 9:57 a.m. ET A $5 billion data center is planned for construction at the York 2 Energy Center in Peach Bottom Township. The project is expected to create 2,500 construction jobs. Officials hope it will spur wider economic development across the county. The data center is part of a larger $90 billion investment in Pennsylvania's energy and AI infrastructure. York County will host a $5 billion data center as part of a larger nationwide investment in infrastructure to support artificial intelligence, officials announced Friday. The massive complex will be housed at the site of the York 2 Energy Center owned by Calpine Corporation, according to the York County Economic Alliance. Calpine Corporation’s parent company, Energy Capital Partners, announced its plans to develop the data center at the York 2 Energy Center. The project is expected to create 2,500 new construction jobs, officials said. The southern York County project was among the $90 billion of investments into data centers, energy and power infrastructure and workforce and AI training project planned for Pennsylvania announced by U.S. Senator Dave McCormick at the Pennsylvania Energy and Innovation Summit held Tuesday in Pittsburgh. “This project is a massive investment in York County’s economy and its future,” said Kevin Schreiber, president and CEO of York County Economic Alliance, in a statement. “From construction jobs to technical operations, this data center project will benefit workers, support local businesses and bring a boost to the York County economy. This is a big win for York County.” The York 2 Energy Center is an 828-megawatt, dual-fueled, combined-cycle gas turbine power station located in Peach Bottom Township. Peach Bottom is also home to the Peach Bottom Clean Energy Center, which is jointly owned by Constellation Energy and PSEG and employs more than 750 workers. Want to stay up to date on the latest news? Sign up for the Dispatch newsletters. Constellation recently announced it has asked the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to renew the operating license of the Peach Bottom Clean Energy Center to run until at least 2054. “These investments will help power innovation in AI and other industries that will define the future for Pennsylvania and all Americans,” said Joe Dominguez, president and CEO of Constellation, in a statement. “We commend state and federal leaders for helping to make these investments possible and for recognizing the unique value of reliable and safe nuclear energy to power our economy and bolster our nation’s energy security.” York County President Commissioner Julie Wheeler said in a statement that the project help the county to become a major player in the energy and technology sectors. “This project is just another example of how we’re building a better York County that’s at the leading edge of economic progress,” Wheeler stated. >> Please consider subscribing to support local journalism. Featured Weekly Ad