Meta plans $800m data center campus in Aiken County, South Carolina - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Meta plans $800m data center campus in Aiken County, South Carolina 715,000 sq ft campus coming to Graniteville August 30, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Social media firm Meta is to develop a new data center campus in South Carolina. “We are excited to announce that Aiken County, South Carolina, will be home to Meta’s newest data center - our 22nd data center in the US and 26th in the world,” the company announced on Facebook this week. “This 715,000 sq ft (66,425 sqm) campus will be part of our global infrastructure that helps bring our technologies and services to life.” Meta's new South Carolina campus – Meta South Carolina Governor Henry McMaster attended a groundbreaking ceremony this week and is reportedly expected to be operational in spring 2027. DPR Construction is the project lead. The company said it would be investing $800 million in the project, which local press report is located in the 2,400-acre Sage Mill Industrial Park in Graniteville. Renderings suggest at least two data center buildings are planned. Once operational, the Aiken Data Center will be optimized for AI workloads. Meta previously paused its data center build-out amid a change in facility design to better cater for AI workloads. 28 Nov 2023 How Meta redesigned its data centers for the AI era A look at Meta’s next-generation data centers “Meta’s decision to locate its newest operation in Aiken County is a major win for South Carolina’s thriving technology industry,” said Governor McMaster. "Meta’s $800m investment will significantly impact our economy, creating valuable jobs and further driving innovation." Aiken County’s access to infrastructure and renewable energy and its strong talent pool were reportedly part of the appeal for Meta, according to the company. Meta has data centers in neighboring North Carolina and Georgia. Though not a huge data center market, the likes of Google , QTS , Dart Points , and DC Blox are present in South Carolina. Subscribe to our daily newsletters Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter series. More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 19 Dec 2025 Microsoft to purchase 28,500 tons of CO2 removal credits from Brazil's InPlanet Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 09 Mar 2026 Power and cooling vendor DRC Heat Transfer acquired by UK-based Smiths for £164m Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Meta DPR South Carolina DPR Construction Aiken County Graniteville Sage Mill Industrial Park Comments