The Frontier Group of Companies to Transform Bruce Mansfield Power Plant into State-of-the-Art Natural Gas Power Plant, Supporting America’s Energy Goals and Pennsylvania’s Economic Growth - Frontier Group of Companies Skip to main content Hit enter to search or ESC to close Close Search Shippingport Industrial Park The Frontier Group of Companies to Transform Bruce Mansfield Power Plant into State-of-the-Art Natural Gas Power Plant, Supporting America’s Energy Goals and Pennsylvania’s Economic Growth By frontieradmin July 15, 2025 No Comments Redevelopment Project Expected to Deliver Significant Economic Benefits to the People, Businesses and Communities of Pennsylvania New Shippingport Power Station Expected to Be a Net-Exporter of Power to PJM, Increasing Local and National Power Supply and Enhancing Grid Reliability DSC06516 DSC05663 DJI_0423 BUFFALO, NY – July 15, 2025 – The Frontier Group of Companies (“FGC”), owner and developer of the 660-acre Shippingport Industrial Park in Pennsylvania, today announced that it is converting the former 2.7 gigawatt Bruce Mansfield Power Plant into Shippingport Power Station, a significantly larger state-of-the art natural gas generation plant with new incremental onsite generation. Additionally, FGC has secured a partner to build a collocated data center facility to support America’s demand for AI infrastructure. Following its completion, Shippingport Power Station is expected to supply substantial direct power to the prospective data center or other potential on-site uses and contribute over one gigawatt of excess capacity back to PJM Interconnection, the largest power grid operator in the United States, boosting both regional and national power supply. The redevelopment project is expected to benefit Pennsylvania with more than $6 billion of new economic activity, encompassing direct spending, indirect spending and induced economic output, as well as create more than 15,000 construction jobs and 340 new full-time jobs in the region. It will also deliver approximately $139 million in annual recurring revenue for the state, including more than $13 million in tax revenue, $36 million in labor income and $6 million in local county tax revenue. David Franjoine, CEO and Founder of FGC, said, “The Bruce Mansfield Power Plant dutifully served Pennsylvania for 43 years. With the support of Governor Josh Shapiro and Senator Dave McCormick, we will transform this decommissioned coal facility into a modernized power facility that supports America’s goal of energy dominance and reinvigorates local communities with high-quality employment opportunities. I look forward to working closely with Senator McCormick and Governor Shapiro to bring this important initiative to fruition.” Shippingport Power Station is expected to utilize approximately 800 million cubic feet per day of natural gas produced by the Marcellus and Utica shales, located in Western Pennsylvania. As part of the redevelopment project, EQT Corporation (NYSE: EQT) (“EQT”), the largest integrated natural gas producer in the U.S., intends to serve as the new plant’s natural gas supplier. Toby Z. Rice, President and Chief Executive Officer of EQT, said, “As a Pennsylvania company, we are especially proud to be a part of this important project, which highlights the critical role of domestic energy in powering economic growth. We look forward to supporting Shippingport Power Station with reliable, affordable natural gas for the benefit of our state and for all Americans.” In addition, National Fuel Gas Supply Corporation, a subsidiary of National Fuel Gas Company (NYSE: NFG) with nearly 125 years of natural gas industry experience, will serve as the transporter for a significant portion of the natural gas supplies to the Shippingport Power Station. David P. Bauer, President and Chief Executive Officer of National Fuel Gas Company, said, “We look forward to supporting this significant investment in Western Pennsylvania, leveraging our interstate pipeline network to provide reliable deliveries of Appalachian Basin natural gas directly to the facility, with new transportation capacity expected to come online as early as Fall 2026.” About The Frontier Group of Companies The Frontier Group of Companies (FGC), based in Buffalo, New York and founded in 2001, specializes in site acquisition, environmental remediation, asset repurposing, energy generation and industrial development of legacy brownfield sites. As a liability transfer company, FGC assumes all environmental liability, identifies the hazardous substances, self-performs remediation and cleanup, razes unusable improvements and engineers and plans the future use of its sites. The facilities that FGC acquires include former coal fired power plants, steel mills, paper mills, coal mines and chemical plants, among a variety of primarily industrial facilities throughout North America. Frontier is a privately held company with a proven and client-endorsed track record, and an extensive list of successful projects completed in over 30 states and seven countries. Additional information about FGC’s Shippingport Project, visit: https://frontier-companies.com/shippingport-industrial-park/ . About EQT Corporation EQT Corporation is a premier, vertically integrated American natural gas company with production and midstream operations focused in the Appalachian Basin. We are dedicated to responsibly developing our world-class asset base and being the operator of choice for our stakeholders. By leveraging a culture that prioritizes operational efficiency, technology and sustainability, we seek to continuously improve the way we produce environmentally responsible, reliable and low-cost energy. We have a longstanding commitment to the safety of our employees, contractors and communities and to the reduction of our overall environmental footprint. Our values are evident in the way we operate and in how we interact each day — trust, teamwork, heart and evolution are at the center of all we do. About National Fuel Gas Company National Fuel is a diversified energy company headquartered in Western New York that operates an integrated collection of natural gas assets across four business segments: Exploration and Production, Pipeline and Storage, Gathering and Utility. Additional information about National Fuel is available at www.nationalfuel.com . The Frontier Group of Companies Kevin Kinross Carey Group kevin@careygroup.biz 412.443.2903 OR inquiries@fic-services.com 888.492.3791 (FGC Directory) EQT Corporation Investors Cameron Horwitz Managing Director, Investor Relations and Strategy Cameron.Horwitz@eqt.com 412.445.8454 Media Amy Rogers Head of Strategic Communications Amy.Rogers@eqt.com 412.738.5220 National Fuel Gas Company Investors Natalie M. Fischer 716.857.7315 Media Karen L. Merkel 716.857.7654 Previous Post Coshocton Port Authority Secures $58.7 Million from Ohio Department of Development for Site Redevelopment at the Conesville Industrial Park Next Post Frontier Group Hits Milestone: $100,000 DOE Grant Fuels Transformation of Former Bruce Mansfield Site Share Share Share Pin Main Administrative Office: 500 Seneca Street Suite 504 Buffalo, NY 14204 +1.888.492.3791 Corporate Office: 12250 Tamiami Trail E. Suite #304 / 305 Naples, FL 34113 FOLLOW US Bethlehem Solar Park, Good Energy Announce Community Solar Project At Former Bethlehem Steel Site in Lackawanna Aligned Data Centers Expands with New Mega-Scale AI Campus at Conesville Industrial Park SITE DIRECTORY Brownfield Development Environmental Liability Transfer Industrial Assets Companies Mixed Use Assets News Contact Close Menu About Services – Brownfield Development Industrial Demolition – Environmental Liability Transfer Commercial Development – Asset Recovery Energy Development Industrial Assets Mixed Use Assets Media Contact View Properties We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. 