Officials grant data center project in Kansas City tax breaks - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Officials grant data center project in Kansas City tax breaks Google-linked Project Mica gets $10 billion abatement April 15, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A data center campus linked to Google has secured tax breaks from local officials in the Northland area of Kansas City, Missouri. First reported by the Kansas City Star , the Port Authority of Kansas City’s development committee this week voted to recommend the issuance of up to $10 billion in bonds for a data center under the codename Project Mica. – Diode Ventures The 500-acre site, off the northeast corner of Interstate 435 and 169 Highway in Clay County, is set to host five data centers totaling 1.56 million sq ft (144,928 sqm). The full Port KC Board of Commissioners will have to approve the plan, which would provide a 75 percent abatement on real property taxes for 25 years. Project Mica was originally introduced by Diode Ventures in 2023, but Google reportedly acquired the site last year. QTS was originally set to develop in the park, previously known as the Rocky Branch Creek Technology Park, but pulled out over concerns about power availability timelines. Google already owns one plot of land in Northland where it is planning a data center campus. October 2023 saw the company file (and later gain permission) to develop up to 1.435 million sq ft (133,316 sqm) of data center floor space on 315 acres in the Hunt Midwest Business Center. The land, located northeast of Parvin Road and Arlington Avenue, was purchased in two transactions, one in 2019 and another in December 2021 . Black & Veatch subsidiary Diode Ventures has developed several data center parks around Kansas City and is planning more in the area. It also recently filed plans to develop a campus outside Richmond, Virginia, and another in Kuna, Idaho . The Mica site is close to Diode’s existing Golden Plains Technology Park. The 760-acre site has been acquired by Meta . Diode also has plans for a third potential campus in the area; it is in the early stages of evaluating Hampton Meadows , a smaller data center site conceptualized for 30 acres it owns south of Golden Plains, between I-435 and Cookingham Drive. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Cloud & Hyperscale Accelerating hyperscale deployments in the AI era 16 Feb 2026 Blackstone-led group invests $600m in Indian AI cloud Neysa Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 19 Mar 2026 Ciena: demand for low latency brings hollow core fiber into play Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Clay County Diode Ventures Google Kansas City Missouri Northland Port Authority of Kansas City Project Mica Rocky Branch Creek Technology Park Tax Tax Abatement tax breaks Comments