Chesterfield scores a Google trifecta: Tech giant reveals ties to 3 massive sites across the county - Richmond BizSense Facebook 0 X (Twitter) LinkedIn The campus network room in the Google data center in Council Bluffs, Iowa. (Courtesy Google) On Wednesday morning, Google made waves in Chesterfield with the announcement of plans for a sizable data center project next to Meadowville Technology Park. By Wednesday evening, it had made an even bigger splash across the county. In a matter of less than 12 hours the tech giant revealed its ties to three code-named developments: Project Peanut near Meadowville, Project Skye in Moseley and Project Loch near Westchester Commons. While the overall scope of the three projects is still unknown, Peanut looks to be the first that will come to fruition, and would take shape on a 300-plus-acre site at 2700 Bermuda Hundred Road that Google quietly bought nearly five years ago. The project was announced in collaboration with Gov. Glenn Youngkin’s office at an event Wednesday morning as part of an overall $9 billion investment by Google in its Virginia operations. That initiative also includes expansions of existing facilities in Prince William and Loudoun counties. Google said the investments to be made through 2026 would expand its cloud computing and artificial intelligence infrastructure and are critical to everyday internet use. “It’s the data centers that keep our products and services running around the clock and around the world,” Google President and Chief Investment Officer Ruth Porat said during the event. “Everything from search and YouTube to what we’re doing with Gmail … to the revolutionary tools that AI is making possible.” The project on Bermuda Hundred is expected to start construction by the end of the year, Google spokeswoman Amber Tillman said in an interview with BizSense. The typical Google data center takes 18 to 24 months to construct. The site is already zoned for such a project. Google didn’t share specs or costs of the project, which is slated to rise on land the company bought from the Chesterfield Economic Development Authority for $18.1 million in 2020. At the time, it wasn’t clear that the purchasing entity, Peanut LLC, was tied to Google. Initially, the project would involve construction of one building with an undisclosed square footage and megawatt capacity. Tillman said it would be the first phase of development on what would be a multiphase campus. A general contractor has been selected for the project, though Tillman declined to identify the firm. The first steps toward the construction of the Google facility in Chesterfield are already underway. In early June, a site plan was received by Chesterfield for mass grading work for what was described in documents as a confidential project at Google’s Bermuda Hundred property. The filings didn’t offer insight into the specs of the planned data center project. The plans were under review by county staff this week. Chesterfield Supervisor Jim Ingle touted the proposed data center project as a economic boon for the county during the announcement event at Brightpoint Community College. (Courtesy Chesterfield County) In remarks during the project announcement event, Chesterfield Supervisor Jim Ingle said the years-in-the-works project would be an economic boon to the county. “After seven years of working behind the scenes, we’re thrilled to say Google, that’s right, Google, has chosen to invest right here in Chesterfield,” Ingle said in his remarks. “Google’s presence here begins incredible opportunities for our community. The investment will create new jobs, drive economic growth and forge valuable partnerships that will benefit our residents for years to come.” Youngkin also shared remarks at Wednesday morning’s event, which was held at Brightpoint Community College’s Chester campus. The project on Bermuda Hundred will be able to take advantage of a fixed tax rate agreement that locks in the county’s current data center equipment rate of 24 cents per $100 of assessed value for 30 years. County supervisors approved the Bermuda Hundred site’s agreement with Google in 2020, and it takes effect once the facility is operational. It’s similar to the tax-incentive agreements deals approved by the board in June for the other two code-named future data center sites in western Chesterfield that were revealed at Wednesday’s supervisors meeting to be owned by Google. Google shared publicly for the first time that it controls the Skyward Holdings and Aeris Investments LLCs affiliated with data center projects planned near Moseley and near Westchester Commons. Tillman told the board that the company didn’t have immediate plans to develop those two sites in western Chesterfield, and that Google would prioritize the Bermuda Hundred Road project. “We’re focused on Project Peanut, so we’ll be working on that site. We don’t have plans to develop (projects) Loch and Skye right now,” Tillman said. She said those sites aren’t factored into Google’s near-term plans to invest $9 billion in Virginia-based facilities. The LLCs tied to Google purchased more than 1,200 acres split between the two sites in western Chesterfield for a combined total of about $60 million in multiple transactions that closed in late June. The larger assemblage that includes 4200 Moseley Road is on the northern edge of the planned Upper Magnolia Green technology park property near Moseley, while the other, called Watkins Centre South, is an assemblage at 750 Watkins Centre Parkway near Westchester Commons. The Skyward and Aeris sites were rezoned under EDA-initiated applications in May. Google announced plans for a data center near Meadowville Technology Park as well as revealed that it owns additional sites in the western part of the county Wednesday. (Courtesy Chesterfield County) Wednesday’s announcements follow the recent unveiling of a power-purchase agreement between Google and Commonwealth Fusion Systems, in which Google would buy half of the electricity generated by a 400-megawatt nuclear fusion power plant that CFS plans to build in Chesterfield. The Chesterfield Planning Commission recently recommended approval of the requested conditional-use permit needed for the CFS power plant , which would be built at 1201 Battery Brooke Parkway. Google’s announcements also come amid other data-center development action in the region and at a time when such projects are under increased scrutiny in certain localities. Denver developer Tract pulled a proposal for a data center project near Chester after the Chesterfield Planning Commission recommended denial of the project. In Charles City County, Kansas-based Diode Ventures this month spiked a proposed data center project following public pushback. Print Article The campus network room in the Google data center in Council Bluffs, Iowa. (Courtesy Google) On Wednesday morning, Google made waves in Chesterfield with the announcement of plans for a sizable data center project next to Meadowville Technology Park. By Wednesday evening, it had made an even bigger splash across the county. In a matter of less than 12 hours the tech giant revealed its ties to three code-named developments: Project Peanut near Meadowville, Project Skye in Moseley and Project Loch near Westchester Commons. While the overall scope of the three projects is still unknown, Peanut looks to be the first that will come to fruition, and would take shape on a 300-plus-acre site at 2700 Bermuda Hundred Road that Google quietly bought nearly five years ago. The project was announced in collaboration with Gov. Glenn Youngkin’s office at an event Wednesday morning as part of an overall $9 billion investment by Google in its Virginia operations. That initiative also includes expansions of existing facilities in Prince William and Loudoun counties. Google said the investments to be made through 2026 would expand its cloud computing and artificial intelligence infrastructure and are c