Lancaster outlines new community agreement with data centers | fox43.com Breaking News More ( ) » Local News Lancaster outlines new community agreement with data centers The deal would require data centers to submit to noise, air quality, water, and clean energy guidelines To stream FOX43 on your phone, you need the FOX43 app. Download the FOX43 app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video LANCASTER, Pa. — Lancaster City officials announced a new community benefit agreement to protect city residents from the environmental impacts of data centers. The arrangement was made with Chirisa Technology regarding two facilities being built on Greenfield Road and Harrisburg Pike. “This is what we decided was best for our community," said Mayor Danene Sorace. Under the agreement, data centers will be required to submit to noise and air quality standards. The company will also be capped to using 20,000 gallons of water per day per campus and use closed loop cooling of the facilities. “From the start, I made clear that these data centers could not rely on cooling methods requiring massive volumes of water, especially after last year’s drought," said Sorace. The deal also requires the company to use 100% clean energy at the data centers, as well as contribute $20 million to the city's Economic Development Fund and Sustainable Development and Clean Energy Fund. The company can enter a long-term energy contract below 100% if they make a significant contribution to the funds. “They cannot drop below 60% clean energy to power these plants at any time," said Sorace. The agreement comes as environmental leaders raise alarms over the use of fossil fuels to power data centers. During a Tuesday press conference, State Rep. Chris Rabb (D-Philadelphia), called on state lawmakers and the Shapiro Administration to protect people from the building of those facilities. “People have a right to clean air, pure water, and the preservation of the natural, scenic, historic, and aesthetic values of the environment," said Rabb. Lancaster officials hope their agreement can serve as a model for other municipalities. “This CBA and the proposed zoning ordinance are opportunities to lead at a pivotal moment," said Sorace. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out