Google announces $2bn data center campus in Fort Wayne, Indiana - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Google announces $2bn data center campus in Fort Wayne, Indiana Company officially announced Project Zodiac campus April 26, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Google is expanding its data center footprint with a new site in Fort Wayne, Indiana. The company this week announced plans for a $2 billion data center in Fort Wayne. It also announced a collaboration with Indiana Michigan Power Company (I&M) to add clean energy to the local grid. Google's Project Zodiac – Google Maps Details of the data center, including location, specifications, and timeline for development, were not shared. However, filings with local government under the name ‘ Project Zodiac ’ – previously confirmed to be Google – suggest a 12-building campus spanning more than 700 acres. “We are thrilled to announce our investment in Fort Wayne as the site for our newest data center,” said Joe Kava, VP global data centers, Google. “Our decision to make a commitment of this magnitude is a true testament to the strategic and collaborative nature of many leaders across Indiana, Allen County, and, particularly, Fort Wayne. Together, Fort Wayne and Google will help power the digital future, including AI innovation across our enterprise and consumer services.” Google has more than a dozen US data center campuses in operation, with more in development. “There’s never been a better time to be in Fort Wayne,” added Fort Wayne Mayor Sharon Tucker. “This investment from Google isn't just about infrastructure or economic development; it's about building a stronger tomorrow, together.” Details of the partnership with I&M weren’t shared beyond the fact the companies aim to bring more clean energy to the local electricity grid and support Google’s 2030 24/7 renewable energy goals. "We are excited to collaborate with Google to provide future energy needs and help support their corporate sustainability goals,” said Steve Baker, president and COO, Indiana Michigan Power. “This project not only helps the Fort Wayne community, but also helps advance the State of Indiana’s energy policy – Reliability, Resiliency, Stability, Affordability and Environmental Sustainability, pillars that are foundational to a successful energy future.” Fort Wayne is located in northeast Indiana, northeast of Indianapolis, east of Chicago, and west of Columbus. It is not an area commonly associated with data center development - local operators Indiana Data Center, Lifeline , and SafeHouse operate facilities in the city. Meta , US Signals , DataBank , Netrality , and Digital Crossroads are present in Indiana, and Amazon this week announced plans for a campus around New Carlisle. Another Fortune 200 company – going under the Liames LLC moniker – is planning a large campus outside Toledo, Ohio, to the east of Fort Wayne. “Indiana has made it a strategic priority to cultivate the economy of the future, and we’re already seeing the impact of our work thanks to the partnership of companies like Google,” said Governor Eric J. Holcomb. “Not only is Google choosing Indiana to power its global AI and cloud infrastructure, but we’re thrilled to see the company already investing heavily in the northeast Indiana community.” Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 15 Jan 2026 CleanSpark acquires 447 acres for second Texas AI data center site Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 11 Mar 2026 Nvidia invests $2bn in AI cloud Nebius Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control Tags Fort Wayne Google Indiana Allen County Project Zodiac Comments