Penn Forest community discusses potential data center | Carbon County Area | wfmz.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email REGIONAL LIVE CAMERAS: Allentown: Dorney Park | OtterCam | Birdfeeder Bethlehem: Hotel Bethlehem | Main Street Reading: Penn Street Easton: Downtown Poconos: Jim Thorpe | Stroudsburg Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Data centers are popping up all over the country, with 85 in Pennsylvania, but some people in Carbon County gathered Monday night to say why they don't want one built near them. Penn's Peak is used to crowds, but not usually for supervisor's meetings. That changed Monday night, as Penn Forest becomes the latest community to weigh in on how to handle possible data centers moving into their backyard. "I don't want to hear electrical generators. I don't want to hear HVAC equipment. I don't want to hear the humming of 60 mega or 60 Hertz of electrical stuff going on," said Robert Winson, Penn Forest resident. All of the people 69 News spoke with at the meeting said they're not in favor of a data center being built, but the board says it's out of their control. Jim Thorpe's zoning ordinance was challenged by a developer interested in building a data center. Now, the board has 180 days to amend their zoning to comply. "We often hear residents explain, quote, no one wants these data centers, why can't we just ban them, the short answer is the Pennsylvania constitution prohibits it," a board member said. One data center that was previously proposed at the intersection of Route 903 and Maury Road in Penn Forest Township sits about four miles from the Lehigh Gorge Scenic Railway, a popular tourist attraction. The 34 pages of amendments include sound level limits, electricity limits, and woodland protection, but, some citizens are still concerned. "I've read all 34 pages, but I'm still worried, and I do not want to see this happening," said Peg Eitl, resident. "There's no upside. There's no jobs being created. I see no good reason for us to allow this to happen in what is effectively a tourist community." The board is planning another meeting just like this in the next two weeks, and there will be a public hearing in February. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Morgan Suppes Author email Follow Morgan Suppes Available for Roku, Fire TV, AppleTV WFMZ+ STREAMING APP WATCH NOW! Watch all of WFMZ-TV News and Syndicated Programing 24/7 on your Streaming App enabled TV. Learn More Lehigh Valley News ‘Next chapter’: Barnes & Noble College Booksellers to no longer manage Moravian Book Shop Lawmakers, Shapiro admin push to end practice of counties taking Social Security money owed to foster kids Sunrise Chef: Weis Markets shares budget-friendly recipes State Treasurer: No legal authorization to use taxpayer dollars to pay for security upgrades to Gov. Shapiro's home French bakery bringing artisanal pastries, other tasty treats to larger Lehigh Valley location 'Hot Rotisserie Chicken Act' could change SNAP Rules ‘Seinfeld’ star Steve Hytner bringing stand-up show to Emmaus Celebration of America's 250th birthday to be held at Lehigh Valley Heritage Museum Some local standouts hope to hear their names called in NFL Draft Therapist Faust Ruggiero discusses PTSD, some ways on how people can get through it Berks Area News 'Charlie’s superhero': How a Berks County father’s final gift saved lives Nick Singleton bobblehead brings fans to FirstEnergy Stadium on draft night Arena football returns to Reading this weekend after decade-long absence Rain or shine: West Reading Craft Pretzel & Beer Fest still on despite forecast Eagle Scout creates accessible fishing pier at Blue Marsh Lake Godiva plant in Exeter Township celebrates 50-year anniversary Furry Friends: Spartan & Buddy Reading Police seek driver in hit-and-run crash that injured 13-year-old Authorities ID victim of fatal car crash on I-78 in northern Berks County Lawmakers, Shapiro admin push to end practice of counties taking Social Security money owed to foster kids Sign Up for Breaking News Get local Breaking News alerts sent directly to your inbox. Success! An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup. Error! There was an error processing your request. Breaking News Alerts Please enter a valid email address. Sign up Manage your lists Available for Roku, Fire TV, AppleTV WFMZ+ STREAMING APP WATCH NOW! Watch all of WFMZ-TV News and Syndicated Programing 24/7 on your Streaming App enabled TV. Learn More Business Headlines The Latest: Trump sending Witkoff and Kushner to Pakistan for talks with Iran's foreign minister Trump sends envoys to Islamabad as Iran rules out direct talks Former Colorado funeral home owner sentenced to 30 years in case that forced industry crackdown The Latest: Trump sending Witkoff and Kushner to Pakistan for talks with Iran foreign minister Trump dispatches Witkoff and Kushner to Pakistan for new talks with Iran's foreign minister Screenwriters overwhelmingly approve a 4-year contract with Hollywood studios The Iran war could drive up costs for petroleum-derived products like clothes and crayons Justice Department drops criminal probe of Fed chair Powell, likely clearing the way for Warsh US still delivering weapons to Ukraine, Zelenskyy says, as Prince Harry visits Kyiv US soldier charged with using classified intel to win $400K on Maduro raid is granted bond What The Tech? What the Tech? Why AI is a starting point, not the final answer What the Tech? How to protect yourself against 'man in the middle' scam What the Tech? How to protect and preserve your Facebook information, even if you forget the password WFMZ-TV 69 News provides news, weather, traffic, sports and family programming for the Lehigh Valley, Berks County, Southeastern Pa., Poconos and Western NJ including Allentown, Bethlehem, Easton, Reading, Kutztown, Emmaus, Quakertown, Stroudsburg, Philadelphia, Jim Thorpe, Doylestown, Phillipsburg, Flemington, Wilmington, and Newark. This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. Advertising: Ad Choices | Do Not Sell My Info (cookies): Choices © 2026, Maranatha Broadcasting Company, Inc. | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Manage Preferences Your Life, your World, your NEWS Do Not Sell My Personal Information Notifications Settings You don't have any notifications. Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device. Topics All Breaking News Subscribe Lehigh Valley Breaking News Subscribe Berks Breaking News Subscribe Breaking News - National Subscribe Sports Subscribe Eat, Sip, Shop Subscribe What The Tech Subscribe WFMZ TRAFFIC UPDATE Subscribe