Large data center proposal raises questions in rural Dane County Skip to content Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google TOWN OF VIENNA, Wis. (WMTV) - A national tech company is considering a large parcel of farmland in northern Dane County as the site of a future data center campus. Developer QTS Data Centers is exploring the possibility of building a multi-building campus on a 615-acre property in the Town of Vienna, just north of Madison. The company recently held a public drop-in meeting to share its early vision with nearby residents. Data centers are large, secure buildings that store and process digital information, including email systems, websites, and cloud storage. They operate 24/7 and require extensive electrical infrastructure and cooling systems. In a statement to WMTV 15 News, QTS said: QTS is exploring the opportunity to establish a new data center campus in the greater Madison, Wisconsin area. QTS is committed to economic development that provides meaningful return on investment for the communities we call home. That includes creating construction, manufacturing and technology jobs, fostering economic growth through tax revenues, working with local suppliers and operating as trusted neighbors and responsible stewards of the environment and community resources. As we begin the planning process for QTS Wisconsin, we hope to meaningfully contribute to the long-term success of the community. Some residents who attended the company’s informational meeting earlier this month say it felt more like a presentation than an open forum. “I feel people probably left with more questions than answers,” said Mary Heimbecker, a Waunakee resident who attended the meeting. Heimbecker, who holds a degree in information technology management, raised concerns about how the facility would impact local energy infrastructure. “I purposely was interested in how they’re going to offset the power drain, because they’re huge power drains,” she said. “I asked if they were going to do solar panels, geothermal… and the gentleman I was talking to said, ‘We don’t know any of those answers yet.’” She said QTS representatives did present a positive message about the company, including highlighting charitable donations, but that the event did not allow for broad public discussion. “They were just there to tell everybody what a wonderful company they’re going to be,” she said. “When people started asking questions, they shut it down.” According to QTS, data centers typically generate millions of dollars in tax revenue, which can support local priorities. In other states, the company says those funds have gone toward affordable housing in Virginia and public schools in Georgia. The property is currently zoned for agriculture, and any development would likely require changes to the town’s comprehensive plan. WMTV 15 News reached out to the Town of Vienna board chair for an interview or statement, but he declined to comment. Click here to download the WMTV15 News app or our WMTV15 First Alert weather app. Copyright 2025 WMTV. All rights reserved. Most Read Tear gas, arrests reported as more than 1,000 activists attempt break-in at Ridglan Farms Middleton Police: Driver arrested after 68-year-old pedestrian dies in crash Nearly 80 students forced into 400+ push-ups at school, many diagnosed with permanent kidney damage, lawsuit says New fee tied to UW Health’s 1 S. Park clinic change raises patient concerns Tornado Warnings expire for southern Wisconsin MMSD cancels school, after-school care for Friday, May 1 Monroe Police identify person found dead near creek as missing man Sun Prairie standoff ends peacefully after man threatens neighbor, police Latest News Wisconsin volleyball wraps up perfect spring exhibition slate Fire in Pleasant Springs destroys barn and shed Columbia County’s The Dump Bar & Grill wins Wisconsin’s best burger award Shed and barn lost after fire Dane County Regional Airport sets record in TSA screenings Record TSA screening numbers for March A second person has died following UTV crash in Town of Brooklyn Second person dies from UTV crash in the Town of Brooklyn