455MW data center campus proposed in North Dakota - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 455MW data center campus proposed in North Dakota Project Fighting Pike from Critical Data House March 28, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A new data center is being proposed in Williston, North Dakota. Citizen Portal reports that Critical Data House has submitted plans for a new 300-acre campus in the Williams County city, known as Project Fighting Pike. Site plan for Fighting Pike – Critical Data House According to city documents , the campus would total seven 65MW buildings, ranging from 275,000 sq ft to 500,000 sq ft (25,550-.46,450 sqm). The facilities will use a closed-loop cooling system with direct-to-chip liquid cooling. Construction on the site, located on the corner of 56th Street NW and US Highway 2, is set to run from Q2 2025 to Q4 2027. Two buildings are planned for the first phase of development, with full build-out expected over three phases and ten years. CDH could reportedly invest as much as $5 billion in the project, with another potential $5bn to be spent on the IT hardware. News that CDH could be interested in developing in Williston first surfaced in November . The site was previously earmarked as a community development known as the Northstar Center that would have included single-family homes, townhomes, apartments, recreation areas, retail centers, office parks, industrial zones, and a sports complex. Up to 2,000 homes were planned but never developed. A Chris Hardin is listed as CEO of Critical Data House. A Chris Hardin is the owner of data center consulting firm CDH Consulting, though it's unclear if they are the same person. Another Williston document links Hardin to Intermountain IG, a firm developing fiber routes across the US. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection North America data center report: Year-end 2025 16 Apr 2026 Change of mayor prompts appeal against data center planned in Provence, France Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 27 Feb 2026 Meta inks 80MW solar PPA with MN8 in Juniata County, Pennsylvania Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Chris Hardin Critical Data House Intermountain IG North Dakota Project Fighting Pike Williams County Williston Comments