Data center developers withdraw plans to rezone more than 600 acres in Jones County, Georgia, after local pushback - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Data center developers withdraw plans to rezone more than 600 acres in Jones County, Georgia, after local pushback Project could return, but faces hurdles October 22, 2025 By Sebastian Moss Have your say Developers have withdrawn a proposal to rezone more than 600 acres in Jones County, Georgia, after local opposition. The Crooked Creek Technology Park project is led by EagleRock Partners, which is also behind another data center in Twiggs County. Set across multiple buildings, the project could have grown to 1.8 million square feet (167,225 sqm). – EagleRock Partners The zoning request was set to face a hearing this Tuesday, but EagleRock and Thomas & Hutton Engineering withdrew their application in an email to the Jones County Planning and Zoning Director Tim Pitrowski. The pullback came amid vocal opposition, with a 'No Data Centers in Jones County' group organized to build support against the development. Some locals are now pushing to change ordinance laws to make data center developments more challenging. EagleRock declined to comment, but previously said that the project would lead to "an investment of $5 to $7 billion." The proposal could still be re-filed, and the project could be reworked - earlier this month, a Cloverleaf pre-development agreement in Michigan was withdrawn , but the company plans to rework its pitch to locals. Over in Twiggs County, Georgia, EagleRock's Pine Ridge Technology Park was approved last month despite local pushback. Opponents claim commissioners violated county ordinances during the approval process and plan legal pushback. More in The Data Center Construction Channel North America data center report 05 Dec 2025 OpenAI in talks with Tata Consultancy Services for Indian Stargate data center - report Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment Tags Crooked Creek Technology Park EagleRock Partners Georgia Jones County No Data Centers in Jones County Thomas & Hutton Engineering Twiggs County Comments