CloudHQ MCC5 | 10740 Airman Avenue, Northern Virginia - datacenterHawk Contact CloudHQ CloudHQ · MCC5 10740 Airman Avenue Manassas, VA United States www.cloudhq.com CloudHQ is planning to build out their MCC5 data center at 10740 Airman Avenue in the Northern Virginia data center market. We expect the building to finish out at a total size of 400,000 SF and is planned to deliver 60,000 kW to the market. Contact CloudHQ Current status and power pipeline Commissioned This facility has been commissioned. Under Construction There is no leaseable power under construction. Planned There are no plans to add additional leaseable power. Proximity to key digital infrastructure Data Centers Cloud On Ramps Carrier Hotel Details This Location CloudHQ MCC5 Data Center CloudHQ MCC4 0.21 miles Cloud On Ramp Google Cloud Equinix DC14 5.84 miles 10 mi Location details Building Connectivity Infrastructure Compliance Services Security Building Year Built Purpose Built or Retrofit Purpose Built Building Size 400,000 SF Building Owner CloudHQ Power On Site Substation No Single or Dual Feed Market Avg Power Cost 6.85 Power Provider Dominion Virginia Power Providers POPs Services Coming Soon UPS Generator Cooling SSAE-16 SSAE-18 HIPPAA PCI DIACAP Energy Star ISO FISMA FEDRAMP NIST SOC 1 SOC 2 SOC 3 Uptime Institute MO Site Award Uptime Institute Tier III Constructed Uptime Institute Tier III Design Private Suites Cloud Dedicated Infrastructure SLA 99% CCTV Card Key Access Man Trap Perimeter Fencing Looking for a colocation partner? Find a qualified provider fit for your colocation requirements. Contact CloudHQ Unlock Facility Information Guess less. Make better decisions about data center real estate. Continue with LinkedIn Continue with Email By providing your information, you consent to allow datacenterHawk to store and process the personal information submitted above and agree to our terms and condititions as well as our Privacy Policy By providing your information, you consent to allow datacenterHawk to store and process the personal information submitted above and agree to our terms and condititions as well as our Privacy Policy First Name * Required! Last Name * Required! Company * Required! Work Email * Required! Get Access Continue with LinkedIn By selecting "Get Access" you consent to allow datacenterHawk to store and process the personal information submitted above and agree to our terms and condititions as well as our Privacy Policy By selecting "Get Access" you consent to allow datacenterHawk to store and process the personal information submitted above and agree to our terms and condititions as well as our Privacy Policy Thank you! Your submission has been received Back to site