AT&T-occupied data center up for sale in Alpharetta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel AT&T-occupied data center up for sale in Alpharetta, Georgia Telco set to stay in place for at least three more years January 21, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say An AT&T data center is up for sale in Georgia. Via Crexi, Franklin Street Real Estate, and KBC Advisors are offering up 12515 Innovation Way in Alpharetta for sale . A listing price wasn’t included. – Franklin Street Real Estate Set on 9.5 acres in Fulton County, the single-story Alpharetta Data Center building totals 88,110 sq ft (8,185 sqm). The site includes some 48,000 sq ft (4,460 sqm) of data hall space and 3.75MW of UPS power in an N+1 design. The property has a total of 10.7MW of utility power. Built in 2002 and renovated in 2006, the facility is solely occupied via a triple net (NNN) lease to an “investment grade telecom tenant” in AT&T. The telco has three years of its current term remaining and two renewal options. AT&T is the site’s only fiber provider. “This offering provides investors with immediate, stable income and the ability to establish a presence in one of the most dynamic and rapidly expanding data center markets in the country,” the listing states. “The property sits within a premier location for both enterprise users and colocation providers, creating an attractive foundation for long-term value.” A former AT&T data center in Orlando, Florida, was up for sale last year. Last year saw the telco sign sale-leaseback deals for some 74 central offices across the country. — Franklin Street Real Estate — Franklin Street Real Estate — Franklin Street Real Estate Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Telecoms & 5G 02 Feb 2026 Google’s Tabua cable makes landfall in Sydney, Australia A peek at the future of AI and connectivity 17 Dec 2025 Verizon signs tower leasing deal with Array Digital Infrastructure More in North America North America data center report 26 Mar 2026 A sticky business: Csquare CEO Spencer Mullee on the colo firm's future plans Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 12515 Innovation Way AT&T Alpharetta Georgia Comments