Environmentally-friendly data center coming to Effingham Advertisement Advertisement Return to Homepage Top Stories: DOJ revives firing squads Golden orb ocean discovery Netanyahu cancer diagnosis $400K Maduro capture bet Israel-Lebanon ceasefire Oklahoma tornado ICE and Border Patrol funding Medical marijuana reclassification Navy secretary ousted Judge blocks Va. voting maps EFFINGHAM – Gail Technology is building a new data center and solar power array on the north part of Effingham. The Bannockburn-based company will hire local residents to help build the project at 15244 E. 1700th Avenue. For projects similar to Effingham’s, construction typically takes 10 to 15 months. IAG Investments is leasing the land to a solar development company, which will build the solar array, battery infrastructure and the shell of the data center. They will also connect with local utilities. Then, Gail Technology will lease access to the data center and its equipment to potential customers. Gail Technology will also pay the solar company for the power the data center uses. Advertisement Advertisement The data center will be used for both artificial intelligence and Web3, according to Gail Technology Chief Financial Officer Nick Mahoney. The company has 10 similar projects in central Illinois. The company chose the Effingham location because of utilities, the permitting process, how flat the land is and how the location is out of the way for neighbors and passersby. “Effingham is exciting because this is kind of a 2.0 version,” said Mahoney. “This will be one of the first handful of projects that will be completed that has a battery backup, which means we … can store more energy and use it locally, which means that there’s less overall strain on the grid.” The amount of solar energy produced should be enough to power the data center 24 hours each day, and any extra that can’t be stored in the backup batteries will be sent back to the electric grid. And Ameren will pay Gail Technology a certain amount of money, depending on how much is sent back. “The cool part about the whole thing is the data center is 100% powered by renewable energy, and it’s green. It’s better for the environment than a lot of the other data centers that are being built these days,” said Mahoney. “We build our own version of a microgrid because it is all set up to work off each other. We do require interconnection to the utility, and we do rely on the utility’s power to have the whole setup working, but for the most part, all of the energy that we power goes to help power our data center for 100% renewable [energy].” Advertisement Advertisement The company can also see when there are spikes in energy prices and energy demand, so they will work with their future customers to plan on turning the servers off for a few hours during busy times. Mahoney estimates that the project will produce enough energy to power 2,000 to 4,000 homes each year. “So it’s not insignificant, but … it does help to reduce the ultimate cost of the homeowner,” said Mahoney. Along with the project being completely powered by renewable energy, Gail Technology partners with Pheasants Forever – an organization from Minnesota dedicated to wildlife habitat conservation – to plant a seed mix between solar arrays to plant natural grasses and flowers, while creating wildlife habitats and pollinator-friendly ecosystems. No gravel, concrete or similar materials will be underneath the solar panels. Advertisement Advertisement Since the company hears a lot of environmental concerns when it comes to new data centers being built, it finds solutions to specifically target those issues head-on. When Gail Technology’s 25-year lease is up with IAG Investments, they can choose to turn the land back into farmland because the overall impact the facility will have to the ground itself is fairly low. “We come from an approach where we really are trying to invest in the community and build a lasting asset that benefits them from a power pricing perspective, from a jobs-creation perspective [and] from an overall land-value perspective,” said Mahoney. View comments About Our Ads Recommended articles Jarrell Miller vs. Lenier Pero live results, round-by-round updates, ring walks, start time for heavyweight fight Follow Jarrell Miller vs. Lenier Pero live results and round-by-round updates for the Miller vs. Pero fight card on Saturday in Las Vegas. Uncrowned Sean McVay downplays 'grumpy' demeanor after Rams' selection of Ty Simpson, embraces GM Les Snead McVay's news conference drew more than a few eyebrows after Day 1 of the NFL Draft. Yahoo Sports NYT Connections hints today for #1,049: Clues and answers for Saturday, April 25 This game can be pretty tough, so we've got clues if you're stuck on today's puzzle, #1,049. Yahoo Tech On verge of history, Blue Jays pitcher Max Scherzer puts up one of the worst starts of the season Scherzer only needed 1 strikeout on Friday to join the exclusive 3,500-strikeout club. He did not get it. Yahoo Sports Kairi Sane, Wyatt Sicks, Aleister Black among flood of WWE roster cuts after WrestleMania 42 More than 15 WWE wrestlers have been released from the company in the wake of WrestleMania 42. Uncrowned Oklahoma softball sets NCAA single-season HR record with 162 homers The Sooners reset their own mark from 2021, now surpassing it by three home runs. Yahoo Sports NFL Draft 2026: Former Ravens RB Mark Ingram brings in son to go full troll with Pittsburgh crowd Mark Ingram was ready for the Pittsburgh crowd at the NFL Draft. Yahoo Sports Where to watch San Antonio Spurs vs. Portland Trail Blazers Game 3 NBA playoffs: Live stream, start time, TV channel, odds for Friday, April 24 The Trail Blazers take on the Spurs in Game 3 of their first-round playoff series. Yahoo Sports Josiah Trotter becomes 2nd son of former NFL LB Jeremiah Trotter to be drafted, going to the Bucs Josiah Trotter is the second Trotter to be selected in the past three drafts. Yahoo Sports 2026 NFL Draft: Fantasy football grades for all relevant prospects on Day 2 Yahoo analyst Joel Smyth handed out grades for every fantasy football-relevant prospect on Day 2 of the 2026 NFL Draft. Yahoo Sports Advertisement