Developer withdraws application for massive data center in rural Hancock Co. | wthr.com Breaking News More ( ) » Business Developer withdraws application for massive data center in rural Hancock County Surge Development, LLC informed the Hancock County Planning Commission Tuesday they have withdrawn their application to rezone more than 700 acres. To stream 13 WTHR on your phone, you need the 13 WTHR app. Download the 13 WTHR app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video GREENFIELD, Ind. — Plans for a massive data center in rural Hancock County are now on hold. Surge Development, LLC informed the Hancock County Planning Commission Tuesday they have withdrawn their application to rezone more than 700 acres for a proposed data center. The "Hancock County MegaSite," which had been proposed for farm land east of Indianapolis Regional Airport on Mt. Comfort Road, was met with resistance from those in the community. More than 70 people signed up to speak at a public hearing on the proposal May 8 at Greenfield-Central High School. "What kind of guarantees are we going to be given that we are protected?" one woman asked at the event. Surge Development laid out details at the public forum about why they thought the project would help move the county forward. RELATED: Hancock County residents meet to learn more about proposed data center "It really is an opportunity to be a tech leader. This is an opportunity for investment and traction. It's economic resilience," said Chris King with Surge Development. The data center campus would store digital data and host other network infrastructures, servers and storage systems. At the center of the community concerns is Tuttle Orchards, which has operated near the land proposed for the data center for nearly a century, as well as noise, water and sewer concerns. Credit: WTHR The proposed data center would be located next to Tuttle Orchards in Hancock County. In a statement to 13News, Surge Development called the community discussion "both constructive and valuable" and that the company planned to "pause and formally withdraw the current zoning request." "Instead, we will focus our efforts on working directly with the specific users who have expressed interest in the site. This approach will allow the community to evaluate individual projects on their merits — with specific details available — before any future zoning action is considered," the statement read. Read Surge Development's full statement here: "On behalf of Surge Development, we want to sincerely thank the Hancock County community for your thoughtful questions, feedback, and engagement during the recent Public Informational Meeting regarding the Hancock County MegaSite Planned Unit Development (PUD). The discussion has been both constructive and valuable. We’ve clearly heard from the public that additional specificity and clear direction are needed to fully understand the potential impacts and benefits of development in this area. Your input has reinforced our belief that meaningful public participation must remain at the core of this process. Based on that feedback, we believe the most prudent course of action at this time is to pause and formally withdraw the current zoning request. Instead, we will focus our efforts on working directly with the specific users who have expressed interest in the site. This approach will allow the community to evaluate individual projects on their merits — with specific details available — before any future zoning action is considered. The Hancock County MegaSite remains a strategically important opportunity to advance the County’s economic development and infrastructure goals. But it is equally important that this be a community-focused process. We are committed to working collaboratively and ensuring we get this right. We appreciate the continued input and engagement from residents, stakeholders, and local leaders. We look forward to ongoing conversations about how best to support Hancock County’s long-term growth, quality of life, and shared vision for the future." Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out