Cawley Partners acquires 5,200 acres outside Dallas, plans data center park - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Cawley Partners acquires 5,200 acres outside Dallas, plans data center park Details sparse on project near city of Ferris June 20, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A Texas real estate firm is planning to potentially develop a large data center park outside Dallas. First reported by D Magazine and Dallas Morning News , Cawley Partners has acquired 5,200 acres south of Dallas. Terms of the acquisition weren’t disclosed. – Cawley Partners The acquired South Creek Ranch in the City of Ferris is set to see a mix of uses, including data centers, logistics, manufacturing, and residential. “This particular piece of land, with the infrastructure that serves it—with Interstate 45 and the future Loop 9—its proximity to the power lines and the water mill switch, make it ideal for data center development,” Tim Keith, partner at Cawley Partners, told D Magazine. Initial development is expected to focus on 2,000 acres in the northern section of the property, which is slated for a network of digital commerce parks. Development is set to start this year, with the first buildings complete in two or three years. Further details about the scope of data center development haven’t been shared. Some 5,000 residential properties are planned in the future. Largely undeveloped and used as a cattle ranch, the site was previously owned by W. Ray Wallace, CEO of Dallas-based Trinity Industries, who died in 2016. Part of the land has been developed as a residential neighborhood. Founded in 1995 after buying out property company Wilcox, Cawley focuses on office, industrial, and multifamily projects around Texas. The firm has developed and acquired more than 11 million sq ft (1,021,933 sqm) of property. Cawley launched an industrial division around 2021, and previously sold 100 acres in Lancaster to Stack for a data center project. “We look forward to sharing more updates about our latest acquisition, South Creek Ranch, as plans develop,” Cawley Partners said on LinkedIn. Tim B. Keith, who leads Cawley’s land and digital platform team, added: "This property is truly a once-in-a-generation asset. We feel a deep responsibility to develop South Creek Ranch in a way that honors the family's legacy – and we are honored to take on the responsibility of shaping this land to attract businesses and benefit families for decades to come.” The land deal was brokered by Icon Global. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 18 Feb 2026 Shark Tank star Kevin O'Leary plots 7.5GW 'Wonder Valley' data center campus in Utah Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America North America data center report 08 Apr 2026 US senators propose ‘Mined in America’ certification for crypto mining facilities Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Cawley Partners Dallas Dallas County Dallas-Fort Worth Ellis County Ferris South Creek Ranch Texas Comments