$13 billion data center, largest in Florida, planned on Treasure Coast ST LUCIE COUNTY Massive data center, one of the world's largest, proposed in rural Treasure Coast The data center would be up to 15 million square feet and have a capacity of 1 gigawatt, which is enough to power a large city Jack Randall Treasure Coast Newspapers Oct. 23, 2025, 5:05 a.m. ET Sentinel Grove Technology Park is a proposed $13.5 billion hyperscale data center. Developers estimate it will generate about $114 million in county property tax revenue and $63 million for the school district. Nearby landowners have expressed concerns about the development. ST. LUCIE COUNTY — One of the largest data centers in the world is planned for the Treasure Coast. Plans for a $13.5 billion hyperscale data center — Sentinel Grove Technology Park, which would be built on former citrus groves at Orange Avenue and Minute Maid Road in rural St. Lucie County — were unveiled to the Planning and Zoning Commission Oct. 16. Sentinel Grove would be one of the largest data centers in the world, both by area and by energy consumption. The 1,218‑acre site would house up to 15 million square feet — more than 260 football fields — of computer systems, server racks and other data-center infrastructure across several buildings. The Planning and Zoning Commission voted 4-2 to recommend against approving development, citing concerns of stormwater runoff, construction traffic and urban sprawl. “We believe Sentinel Grove Technology Park is a once-in-a-generation economic project for St. Lucie County," Robert Provine, COO of Timberline, said in a statement on Oct. 21. A day later, Timberline Real Estate Development, part of the development team, announced it would "temporarily pause" the project. Sentinel Grove would be "one of the most significant single private investments in the history of St. Lucie County," according to the project's proposal . "No comparable data center projects currently exist in the state." How Sentinel Grove would compare Currently, the largest data center in the U.S. is owned by Meta Platforms, Facebook's parent company. It spans 4.6 million square feet in Prineville, Oregon. Project Matador is a planned 18-million-square-foot hybrid data center and nuclear power plant in Carson County, Texas. Florida's next-largest data center would be 7 million square feet , proposed for Yeehaw Junction. Sentinel Grove would have a capacity of 1,000 megawatts — or 1 gigawatt — an electricity consumption comparable to a city of 1 million residents. The Treasure Coast has a total population of more than 721,000, according to state data. Of the tens of thousands of data centers in the world, fewer than 225 have a capacity greater than 100 megawatts, according to a 2023 analysis of the data center industry. Since then, plans for gigawatt data centers have grown more frequent. Questions remaining The owner, operator and how Sentinel Grove would be financed still are unknown, county Planning and Zoning Manager Kori Benton said. The land is owned by Tallahassee-based land banking investment firm Epic Estates, which purchased it for $15 million in July 2024, according to the St. Lucie County Property Appraiser's Office. An Epic Estates spokesperson did not respond to emails seeking comment. Sentinel Grove developers include Timberline and HJA Design Studio. They need St. Lucie County to create a special zoning district, which is necessary to build the data center in a rural region. The special district must be approved by the County Commission and state agencies. Neither Project Manager Patti Tobin, of HJA Design Studio in Palm City, nor Scott Bullock, of Timberline, responded to requests for comment. Sentinel Grove was code-named "Project Jarvis" in the Economic Development Council of St. Lucie County's 2025 mid-year report. EDC spokesperson Maureen Saltzer, citing a confidentiality agreement, declined to identify the company and declined to say if the EDC had solicited the proposal. "Project Jarvis" also was the name of Google's rumored initiative to develop an advanced AI model, but there's no relationship between EDC's "Project Jarvis" and Google's, Saltzer said. Demand for data centers, especially for tech companies such as Meta and Google, has ballooned alongside the rapid rise of artificial intelligence, cloud computing and digital storage. Large data centers are increasingly being constructed in rural and remote areas away from major cities. The U.S. Department of Energy estimates data centers consumed about 4.4% of total U.S. electricity in 2023 and are expected to consume up to 12% by 2028. Local impact The data center, according to its proposal, is expected to generate about $114 million in county property-tax revenue and $63 million for the school district — increasing the total annual property tax revenue for both by 16% and 6%, respectively. The facility would create 370 jobs with salaries of $75,000-$110,000. Florida's data center industry accounted for 40,090 jobs in 2023, according to a report by the Data Center Coalition, an industry trade organization. "Data centers are the essential digital infrastructure behind every online purchase, telehealth appointment, online news article and digital classroom," Dan Diorio, of the Data Center Coalition, said in a statement. While data centers often bring high-paying jobs, they also have been associated with increasing utility rates and nitrogen dioxide air pollution from diesel-powered backup generators. Sentinel Grove developers did not respond when asked how the data center would address stormwater runoff, air pollution and noise pollution. "It will have little impact to nearby landowners and residents," Provine said. Nearby landowners, however, already are voicing their concerns. During the Planning and Zoning Commission meeting, nearby landowners expressed concerns about stormwater runoff, construction traffic and urban sprawl encroaching into an agricultural region. This "is the last ag area we have left in St. Lucie County,” Cynthia Adams, of Adams Ranch, said during the meeting. “Please don’t destroy it.” Jack Randall is TCPalm’s economy and real estate reporter. You can reach him at jack.randall@tcpalm.com . Featured Weekly Ad