OnePartner - Duffield Data Center (ATAC) - Cloud and Colocation Skip to content OnePartner – Duffield Data Center (ATAC) OnePartner Duffield data center, Advanced Technology & Applications Center (ATAC), is located at 158 Advanced Technology Dr., Duffield, VA 24244. The data center is strategically located in geographically stable region with no historic record of natural disasters. The facility was built from ground up, and has achieved Uptime certified Tier III status in Jan, 2008. The data center provides amenities such as client lounge, work area space, and conference room with video conference facility. The data center offers managed services, colocation, disaster recovery services, and business continuity solutions. The OnePartner specializes in providing colocation services with rack space, half and full cabinets, and caged space of 10’x10′. The data center provides 9,200 square feet of total space. The 24 inches antistatic raised floor for the efficient cooling and cables. The data center is regularly audited in accordance with SSAE 16 SOC II, and SOC III requirements, and passing third party HIPAA, PCI, and SOX audits with 100% compliance. The facility provides an array of advanced security measures, including 24x7x365 staffed security, security lights, video surveillance systems, monitoring staff, biometric, multi factor authentication access control, and proximity card lock for cages. The data center uses state of the art fire detection and suppression system for life and equipment safety. The data center is reliable and fault tolerant N+1 infrastructure for all critical components. The utility power is provided by TVA, and is provided through two independent circuits from 2 x 1 MW N+1 diesel generators through dual Liebert Series 610 3-phase UPS in N+1 redundancy, directly into the ‘A’ and ‘B’ power supplies of client’s servers. Each generator is capable of sustaining the entire facility at full capacity with 1,000 gallons fuel storage tank for a minimum of one week’s operation between refills. The HVAC units in N+1 redundant configuration provide the cooling and humidity in the data center with HVAC equipment is placed in the equipment pad that is protected by a large fence. The data center uses advanced hot-aisle and cold-aisle configuration featuring ceiling plenum and forced-air return. The equipment room, which houses UPS and network connections also has dual air conditioning units. OnePartner’s ATAC data center is a carrier neutral facility with multiple Internet providers. The data center has dual fiber entrances, high connectivity with BGP routing best path, and offers 100% network uptime. 24x7x365 NOC staff provides the helpdesk services, and remote hands services. OnePartner is a Tier III certified commercial data center facility. It offers colocation, managed services, and disaster recovery services through its state of the art data center in Duffield. The company serves the clients in manufacturing, health, and banking sectors. The OnePartner ATAC is the home of the OnePartner HIE – the health information exchange that is a robust, full featured, standards based health information exchange platform. OnePartner - Duffield Data Center (ATAC) 158 Advanced Technology Dr., Duffield, VA 24244, USA Explore all OnePartner data center locations, view additional Duffield data center locations, or expand your view to all data centers in Virginia . View more OnePartner data centers View other Duffield data centers View all Virginia data centers OnePartner – Duffield Data Center (ATAC) highlights Uptime Certified Tier III Infrastructure Located in Geographically Stable Region No Historic Record Of Natural Disasters Built From Ground Up Amenities Client Lounge Work Area Space Conference Room with Video Conference Colocation Rack Space Half and Full Cabinets Caged Space Of 10’x10′ 9,200 Square Feet of Total Space 24 Inches Antistatic Raised Floor Certifications and Compliance SSAE 16 SOC II and SOC III HIPAA PCI SOX Security 24x7x365 Staffed Security Security Lights Video Surveillance Systems Monitoring Staff Biometric Multi Factor Authentication Access Control Proximity Card Lock for Cages State of the Art Fire Detection and Suppression System N+1 Infrastructure for All Critical Components Utility Power Provided by TVA Two Independent Circuits A+B Dual Liebert Series 610 3-Phase UPS in N+1 Redundancy Diesel Generators in N+1 Redundancy 2 x 1 MW Diesel Generators 1,000 Gallons Fuel Storage Tank Sufficient for One Week’s Operation Between Refills HVAC Units In N+1 Redundant Configuration Placed in the Equipment Pad Protected By A Large Fence Advanced Hot-Aisle And Cold-Aisle Configuration Ceiling Plenum And Forced-Air Return Carrier Neutral Facility Dual Fiber Entrances BGP Routing Best Path 100% Network Uptime 24x7x365 NOC Staff Remote Hands Services Request Quote Δ Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Name * First Last Company Name Email * Phone * Skype Requirements Tell us about your Space, Power, Bandwidth or any special requirements I would like a quote from OnePartner - Duffield Data Center (ATAC). Are you interested in quotes from other providers in the area? * Yes No Nearby Data Centers COPT Data Center Solutions - NGIT-VITA Lebanon Data Center 201 Technology Park Drive, Lebanon, VA 24266, USA 42.36mi