Yondr expands into Texas, plans 550MW data center in Dallas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Yondr expands into Texas, plans 550MW data center in Dallas Company expands beyond Virginia into the Lone Star State August 18, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Data center developer Yondr Group is expanding into Texas, with a new campus in Dallas. The DigitalBridge-owned company this week announced it has secured a 163-acre site in Lancaster, Texas, just south of Dallas, to develop a data center campus able to offer 550MW critical IT load. A Yondr data center in Northern Virginia – Yondr The campus is expected to break ground in 2026. Further details on the project weren’t shared. The acquisition is Yondr’s first announced expansion since appointing Aaron Wangenheim as CEO in July. It is just the company's second project in the US, but Yondr noted it is in “advanced discussions” for sites in several other tier 1 US metros, and continues to expand in Europe. “The US is a key market for Yondr’s next phase of growth, and Dallas is one of the largest and fastest-growing data center markets in the world. This investment in Dallas is just the beginning,” said Wangenheim. “Our proven ability to deliver reliable, resilient, and sustainable data center solutions at scale – backed by the strength of our investors DigitalBridge and La Caisse – positions us incredibly well to support clients in Tier 1 markets where they need us.” Yondr is headquartered in London and was previously owned by single-family investment office Cathexis, Apollo Global Management , and Mubadala . It was acquired by DigitalBridge and Canadian pension fund La Caisse in a deal that closed in July . German financial giant Allianz has since acquired a minority stake in the business. Mayor Clyde Hairston of the City of Lancaster added: "We are delighted to welcome Yondr, a respected data center developer and operator, to Lancaster. Yondr has pledged to create full-time jobs as a result of this project and provide significant financial support for local events and community initiatives. Yondr operates data center campuses across Europe, Asia, and North America, with developments in Virginia , Canada , the UK , Malaysia , Indonesia, Japan , Germany , the Netherlands, and (until recently ) India . The Dallas-Fort Worth metro is one of the major data center markets in the US and globally. Skybox , QTS , and Stack are also developing campuses in the Lancaster area of the city. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Hong Kong: Asia’s connectivity hub 21 Jan 2026 Planned Project Atlas data center campus in Coweta, Oklahoma fails to secure backing from planners Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in Colocation & Wholesale NTT Global Data Centers Guide to India data center expansion 05 Feb 2026 Black Mountain Power buys 432 acres in San Antonio, Texas 27 Nov 2025 Thésée Datacenter plans 50MW expansion of campus outside Paris, France Tags Dallas Dallas County Dallas-Fort Worth Lancaster Texas Yondr Yondr Group Comments