Arizona Land Consulting buys land for potential 1.5GW data center - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Arizona Land Consulting buys land for potential 1.5GW data center Deal backed by venture capitalist Chamath Palihapitiya May 30, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say Arizona Land Consulting (ALC) is looking to develop a 1.5GW data center in Arizona. ALC acquired around 2,000 acres of land, located west of Phoenix in the city of Buckeye. The land formerly belonged to Hassayampa Ranch. Visualization of the land parcel – Arizona Land Consulting The deal was backed by Chamath Palihapitiya, CEO of tech venture capital firm Social Capital. Palihapitiya’s exact role or level of investment was not disclosed. The land is located next to Bill Gates’ one-time proposed 24,800-acre smart city, Belmont . First announced in November 2017, Gates staked $80 million on the project through his firm Cascade Investment, but it’s unclear if the project is still ongoing. DCD has reached out for comment. In terms of capacity, Palihapitiya said that the facility would be able to “accommodate over 1GW.” Anita Verma-Lallian, CEO of ALC, told DCD that this number could potentially reach up to 1.5GW, but noted that it was challenging to provide estimates until the project entered the planning and design phases. Verma-Lallian said that this would “cost $25 billion at full build out.” Development timelines are not currently available, but Palihapitiya said that they would “continue the process of entitlements and regulatory permitting so we can start construction.” The exact engineering of the deal is unclear. Verma-Lallian said on X that this was an “acquisition of Hassayampa Ranch for $51m,” but documents show that Hassayampa Ranch first sold the land to ALC for $37.5m, before ALC then sold the land back to Hassayampa Ranch, Light Year Capital, and DYA Capital for $51m - the figure stated in the press release and Verma-Lallian’s post on X. Sources close to the deal said that “these figures are not accurate,” and that “the minutiae of the closing could not be disclosed.” ALC has made a series of similar acquisitions in the same area. Two months ago, it bought another 160 acres in Buckeye for $21.7m, which it could develop itself or sell; and last year , it sold a 2,069-acre parcel to data center campus developer Tract for more than $136m, after buying it for $40m in 2022. Verma-Lallian previously worked at land development and land banking company Vermaland, which is helmed by her father, Kuldip Verma. The company has a portfolio of more than 25,000 acres of land. The area around Phoenix has become home to many players in the data center industry, including Meta , Google , AWS , Microsoft , and EdgeCore . More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 23 Apr 2026 Thor Equities looks to build 460,000 sq ft data center campus near Urbana, Ohio Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 12 Nov 2025 Box2bit plans data center in Calatayud, Spain Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment Tags Anita Verma-Lallian Arizona Arizona Land Consulting Bill Gates Buckeye Chamath Palihapitiya Hassayampa Ranch Phoenix Comments