St. Joseph County Council denies land rezoning for data center Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 56 ° Sat 63 ° Sun 68 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY St. Joseph County Council denies land rezoning for data center by Kyland Hall , WSBT 22 Reporter Wed, December 10, 2025 at 4:54 AM Updated Wed, December 10, 2025 at 2:02 PM 8 VIEW ALL PHOTOS A 13 billion dollar data center project gets a "no" vote from the St. Joseph County Council. (WSBT Photo) Comment on this story 13 Comment Share story Share topics: St. Joseph County Land rezoning Data center Public opposition Farmland Amazon Area Plan Commission County council ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, Ind. (WSBT) — A 13 billion dollar data center project fails to get the necessary rezoning near New Carlisle, for now, it won't happen. The 7-to-2 vote against came after a marathon meeting that started at 6 p.m. The St. Joseph County Council met for 10 hours and took the final vote after 4 a.m. on Wednesday. The vote came after hours of open comment, many expressing concerns over the environmental impact of a third data center. A 13 billion dollar data center project gets a "no" vote from the St. Joseph County Council. (WSBT Video) It's estimated that nearly 4 dozen people lined up to speak about midnight, each person getting three minutes. Most of the strongest comments came from people against the data center that was targeting a thousand acres of farmland off Chicago Trail. This is the same general area near New Carlisle where the Amazon data center is already partially operational, while the rest of the campus is being built. Many believed a third campus would bring a spike in electricity bills and a drain on the city's water supply. The hesitation is not just coming from residents. A 13 billion dollar data center project gets a "no" vote from the St. Joseph County Council. (WSBT Video) Some of the arguments against this data center were similar to the arguments against the Amazon Web Services center while it was going through the approval process. This "no" vote on rezoning that farmland came after two "unfavorable" recommendations from the Area Plan Commission and a county council committee. "Just wonderful, and by the margin. I think it will be difficult for this petitioner to want to come back here in six months. I think he sees he'd be fighting an uphill battle. If all these people hadn't showed up.I think that had an influence on the vote tonight. All the people from the just the whole community, county community, not just New Carlisle," said Dan Caruso, New Carlisle resident. "We have the largest Amazon Data Center going on in New Carslisle right now in the country. We have General Motors in New Carlisle. We have Microsoft that hasn't even started in the east part of the County. So, let's just wait until we see that the dust settles, and see what happens. This was something that was being rushed, and I thought it should have slowed down because we don't know what we don't know," said Joe Thomas, (R) St. Joseph County Council District A. The developer does have the option of bringing this proposal back to the county in six months. Comment with Bubbles READ THE COMMENTS (13) It's unclear if that will happen despite concern from some critics, the developer may try to spend that time to build more support. Trending Federal rescheduling of marijuana products spurs legalization debate in Indiana A major decision from the White House may have local implications.The Justice Department issued an order rescheduling certain marijuana products to a lower drug The Shirt 2026 unveiled on Notre Dame's campus Friday is a big day on the Notre Dame campus!It's the unveiling of The Shirt 2026.The unveiling is happening at 4:30 p.m. on the Library Lawn.If there's rain th Fight to get Chicago Bears to Indiana hits setback Indiana's fight to get the Chicago Bears to build a stadium in Hammond suffered a setback.The Illinois House of Representatives passed legislation that might co Suspect's vehicle reaches speeds over 110 mph; crashes after Berrien County police pursuit A 20-year-old man was injured in a crash during a police pursuit that reached speeds over 110mph in Berrien County.Police say a Berrien County Sheriff’s deputy Two men arrested in human trafficking operation in Roseland Two men were arrested for soliciting a prostitute in Roseland on Thursday.The arrests were made as a part of a multi-agency operation combatting human trafficki NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 3 St. Joseph County discusses Wedgewood Park street flooding problems 4 Middle school students explore skilled trades with electrical workers 5 Debate is growing over future of Portage Manor 3 Students urged to prioritize safety as they play Senior Assassin game