Bonner Data Center | Missoula County Voice Skip To Skip to main content Jump to navigation Skip to tools Skip to additional project info Search IE10 and below are not supported. Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Contact us for any help on browser support Bonner Data Center Share Bonner Data Center on Facebook Share Bonner Data Center on Twitter Share Bonner Data Center on Linkedin Email Bonner Data Center link Project overview A property owner in Bonner has submitted a preliminary application to Missoula County Planning, Development and Sustainab i lity for a proposal to leas e the pla ner building at the Old Bonner Mill to a company planning to esta blish a data center . The site, generally located at 9 3 14 Bonner Mill Road in the Bonner Mill Industrial Park , is zoned Industrial Center, Heavy . A data center would be an allowed use on the property. Missoula County has additional zoning regulations that apply to data centers and cryptocurrency operations throughout the county. These include: All power for the operation must come from a new renewable energy source (meaning it has not been on the market yet) The operation must recycle all electronic waste Because it is located within 500 feet of a residential area, the proposal must go through a special exception review to ensure impacts to nea rby properties are addressed, including traffic, noise, lighting, landscaping, and screening and buffering Project process The project would be subject to approval by the Missoula County Consolidated Land Use Board , not the county commissioners. While t he land use board at times only has authority to make recommendations to the commissioners , t he board does have final decision-making authority in some cases , including zoning variances, zoning special exceptions and administrative action appeals. T he land use board has authority to approve or deny a prop o s al to locate a data center within 500 feet of residential use, but the applicant must still secure a zoning compliance permit from the County ensuring they meet the requirements to recycle e-waste and supply the operation with new renewable energy, as required by the cryptocurrency zoning. T he board may consider this project in early May at the earliest. The project would also need to get other County permit s to operate , such as bui lding and other trade permits. These are subject to admin i strative review and do not involve a public process. What is a special exception? A special exception is defined as an allowed use that meets the intent of the zoning in an area, but which, because of location, scale, required infrastructure or other potential impacts, requires a special degree of consideration and control to ensure it is consistent and compatible with the overall community character. State law and local regulations require the Board of Adjustment to be the reviewing and approving authority for special exception requests. (The Consolidated Land Board serves as the Board of Adjustment for Missoula County.) What’s next? The project is still in its initial stages, and Missoula County has not received a formal application yet , which is typically the point when public engagement starts. Due to heightened public interest though , r esidents are invited to ask questions and submit comments using the tools below. County staff attended, but did not organize, a community meeting Friends of 2 Rivers hosted on March 20 in Bonner. If a formal application is received, the public will have a chance to weigh in on this project at a public meeting of the land board. Follow this project page to be notified when a meeting is set. Project overview A property owner in Bonner has submitted a preliminary application to Missoula County Planning, Development and Sustainab i lity for a proposal to leas e the pla ner building at the Old Bonner Mill to a company planning to esta blish a data center . The site, generally located at 9 3 14 Bonner Mill Road in the Bonner Mill Industrial Park , is zoned Industrial Center, Heavy . A data center would be an allowed use on the property. Missoula County has additional zoning regulations that apply to data centers and cryptocurrency operations throughout the county. These include: All power for the operation must come from a new renewable energy source (meaning it has not been on the market yet) The operation must recycle all electronic waste Because it is located within 500 feet of a residential area, the proposal must go through a special exception review to ensure impacts to nea rby properties are addressed, including traffic, noise, lighting, landscaping, and screening and buffering Project process The project would be subject to approval by the Missoula County Consolidated Land Use Board , not the county commissioners. While t he land use board at times only has authority to make recommendations to the commissioners , t he board does have final decision-making authority in some cases , including zoning variances, zoning special exceptions and administrative action appeals. T he land use board has authority to approve or deny a prop o s al to locate a data center within 500 feet of residential use, but the applicant must still secure a zoning compliance permit from the County ensuring they meet the requirements to recycle e-waste and supply the operation with new renewable energy, as required by the cryptocurrency zoning. T he board may consider this project in early May at the earliest. The project would also need to get other County permit s to operate , such as bui lding and other trade permits. These are subject to admin i strative review and do not involve a public process. What is a special exception? A special exception is defined as an allowed use that meets the intent of the zoning in an area, but which, because of location, scale, required infrastructure or other potential impacts, requires a special degree of consideration and control to ensure it is consistent and compatible with the overall community character. State law and local regulations require the Board of Adjustment to be the reviewing and approving authority for special exception requests. (The Consolidated Land Board serves as the Board of Adjustment for Missoula County.) What’s next? The project is still in its initial stages, and Missoula County has not received a formal application yet , which is typically the point when public engagement starts. Due to heightened public interest though , r esidents are invited to ask questions and submit comments using the tools below. County staff attended, but did not organize, a community meeting Friends of 2 Rivers hosted on March 20 in Bonner. If a formal application is received, the public will have a chance to weigh in on this project at a public meeting of the land board. Follow this project page to be notified when a meeting is set. Submit Comment Ask a Question × Thank you for your contribution! Help us reach out to more people in the community Share this with family and friends Facebook Share on Facebook Twitter Share on Twitter LinkedIn Share on Linkedin WhatsApp Whatsapp Share via Email Email this link No thanks Let us know what you think by logging in or creating an account and submitting your comment below. Staff do not respond to comments submitted here. If you have a question you would like answered, submit it on the Questions tab. You need to be signed in to comment in this Guest Book. Click here to Sign In or Register to get involved Please, please, please reject this proposal. I can’t even believe we have to submit comments on this. This would be a disaster. An absolute disaster for Montana and the entire surrounding areas. These centers put a significant strain on energy, water, infrastructure, environment, and quality of life. Costs can offset gains. They have a high electrical demand and can consume power equivalent to tens of thousands of homes, straining grids driving up demand for new plants/transmission lines, raising rates for residence as 