Project - City of Hermantown Skip to content Contrast Text Size A A A Language With the potential for a Google data center project in Hermantown under evaluation, the City has created the following webpage to provide information throughout the process. This page will be updated at times, so please check back for new information. Questions and Answers (and Updates) Why am I just learning about this? Let’s start with the first (and maybe most important) question that brought you here. You are learning about this now because this potential project has reached a point where a traditional public application is set to be considered. You are also likely learning about this now because you saw the media coverage the potential project received in late September, or the initial round of media attention the potential opportunity received in June of 2025. And yes, it is a data center. You may be interested in learning more because of concerns about the environmental impacts of a large project at this location. You might have worries about noise, traffic, or taxes. You might also be here because of excitement about the hundreds of jobs this would create for our area if it moves forward. Or you might be interested in the potential millions in economic development this may bring to our region. At City Hall, we have certainly heard from people, both concerned and excited, following the second round of reporting in September. This is the largest proposed project in the history of the City of Hermantown. While it follows similar processes as any Hermantown project, it shouldn’t be a surprise that people have learned about it in advance of that application. It is a proposal worthy of lengthy and thorough due diligence, and it is a project that is worthy of attention before the application and subsequent public process would normally begin. This possibility has involved partners beyond the City of Hermantown, as the county, the sanitary district, and our largest neighbor are all factors in this opportunity. It is a big deal, and people outside of City Hall have been talking about it for several months. To be even more straightforward, it makes sense that you’d want to know about this. It is also worth allowing the time for the developer to hone in the specifics of this project before we talk about it publicly as staff, and before they allow their unique approach to what is possible in this development to be available to the greater public. That is a fair, and best-practice, to allow developers that time and space before an application. Future developers, entrepreneurs, and folks with big dreams/ideas know they can count on our city staff to reasonably protect those dreams/ideas until the appropriate time. Or, to be even more straightforward, it makes sense that we let the homework be completed by any developer before we grade the assignment. In the first full week of October, that application has been received and can follow the public process. UPDATE: As noted in the process update on the left, the City of Hermantown received information regarding a petition from the Environmental Quality Board. To appropriately respond to this new request, received on October 21, the consideration of the project application has been paused. On December 3, 2025, the City responded to the petition received by the Environmental Quality Board in October. The response can be found here. UPDATE: The City of Hermantown received a lawsuit regarding this project on November 5. At this time, the city will conduct the appropriate review and due diligence and follow the legal process. UPDATE: On November 10, the City received an update from Mortenson removing any upcoming applications from the Planning & Zoning Commission and City Council agendas to allow for further public engagement. What is the potential project? A U.S.-headquartered Fortune 50 company is evaluating the potential for a data center project in the southwest corner of Hermantown, near Midway Rd and Highway 2. The project has been in a lengthy evaluation phase, which continues now; however, preliminary discussions with city staff outlined the scope of this potential project, which would bring significant investment, job creation, and economic opportunity to Hermantown and St. Louis County. This proposed communications services project would include up to four data center buildings and supporting infrastructure. All parts of the project, from stormwater mitigation to the buildings themselves would need to meet local and state environmental regulations. The economic investment of this potential project is hundreds of millions of dollars in steady growth as the project builds out, with the potential of reaching billions over time. This would support not only the City of Hermantown, but St. Louis County, Hermantown Community Schools, and the greater region. There will be additional community benefits created in partnership with the developer that will also be finalized should this project proceed, so there will be positive impacts in areas such as parks, education, workforce development, and more. More information on the project specifics can be found in the applications found here , as well in this presentation at the Hermantown City Council Meeting held on October 20 . Why this location? Let’s start out answering this with a larger lens. Minnesota has long had some of the most robust environmental protections in the country. Additionally, our state also has strong statutory limitations on tax incentives. This combination means that businesses and industries that choose to invest in Minnesota have to do so with stronger consideration for the natural environment and less financial incentives than neighboring states. Minnesota has more than 80 data centers, including four in the Duluth area, but is only now attracting the larger-scale data center projects that have been seen in other parts of the country. In the same way, the technology we utilize and rely on daily continues to evolve and improve, and these facilities have as well. And they must in order to meet Minnesota’s environmental expectations. Beyond the state, this location in Hermantown has a unique draw for this type of investment. This location is directly adjacent to the Arrowhead Substation that was constructed by Minnesota Power in the 1970s. This piece of substantial electrical infrastructure is what has drawn the attention of this type of development. The Arrowhead Substation is a regional energy hub with connections to wind, solar, and hydro power sources. The ability to connect to the necessary energy without having to add lengthy infrastructure makes this an appealing site for users requiring such connectivity. We have been asked recently what has changed about the Adolph area – the local name used for this southwest corner of Hermantown – when development wasn’t a priority as recently as 2014. The reality is that nothing has changed in that area, which wasn’t already there for many years – the large-scale electrical substation, the heavy-use railroad tracks, and the high-traffic county roads, but what has changed is the way those assets are now valued by the world. That location has not attracted any development until now, where it is being viewed through the lens of this new development opportunity. There are environmental considerations specific to this site that any developer must address and adhere to. See the question below about wetlands for more on that process. What about jobs? Job creation is an important part of this project. Construction on this multi-building proposal would occur steadily over an 8-10 year window and employ hundreds of construction workers. As noted by local labor groups at a recent City Council meeting, they have the local workforce and are excited about this possibility, both the project and the timeframe. There will also be skilled technical roles associated with the long-term operation of this communication services facility. Ther