Charged debate over Hermantown data center draws crowd - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Saturday, April 25 Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Charged debate over Hermantown data center draws crowd The Hermantown City Council approved rezoning for a large data center despite public objections. Hermantown police officers speak with people trying to get into the Hermantown City Council meeting, where public comment about the proposed data center was being heard on Monday evening. An overflow area was open where people could watch the meeting on televisions, and that space also had an overflow area. Jed Carlson / Duluth Media Group By Peter Passi October 21, 2025 at 9:00 AM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? HERMANTOWN — Seating was in unusually short supply at the Hermantown City Hall on Monday night, as councilors took up a rezoning request that could open the door for the construction of a sprawling data center in the rural southwest corner of the community. Council chambers were filled to capacity, and an engaged crowd exceeding 300 citizens spilled out into overflow spaces where members of the public were able to view a video feed of the meeting and step forward to address councilors in turn when it was their opportunity to speak. ADVERTISEMENT Hermantown mayor Wayne Boucher, center, bangs his gavel as a speaker talks over her allotted three minutes during the public comment about the proposed data center. Jed Carlson / Duluth Media Group The meeting began at 6:30 p.m. and wrapped up shortly before the clock struck midnight. Both advocates and opponents of a proposed data center development shared their views before the council unanimously voted to support the requested zoning change of 220 acres from a classification of S-1 Suburban to Business/Light Manufacturing. Councilor John Geissler was not present due to a prior commitment. Audience members responded to the council vote roughly, with many people standing and shouting “Shame,” following its approval of the requested zoning change. People gather outside the outflow area to watch the Hermantown City Council meeting through doors and windows. Jed Carlson / Duluth Media Group Hermantown Community Development Director Eric Johnson recommended the new zoning, “The purpose of this is to be able to create employment centers, a broader diversity of jobs, as well as to increase tax revenues associated with industrial types of uses,” he said. But many neighbors questioned whether a data center was an appropriate fit for the area. If it materializes, the proposed development would likely be built in three phases and could measure up to 1.8 million square feet when fully realized. That’s equivalent to the footprint of more than 31 football fields. ADVERTISEMENT People wait in the entryway of Hermantown City Hall to try to get into an overflow area. Jed Carlson / Duluth Media Group The data center development is expected to consume 30,000 to 50,000 gallons of water per day at maturation. Hermantown’s economic development director, Chad Ronchetti, suggested the creation of more commercial development stands to benefit residential taxpayers. He noted that commercial property owners typically pay two to three times as much tax as homeowners do in relation to the value of a parcel and/or a particular building. Ronchetti projected that the new development would inject $50 million to $100 million into the local economy. Dan Lessor, vice president of real estate for Mortenson Co., the would-be developer of the project, defended data center projects as a worthy investment in the nation’s future. “They’re critical pieces of our local and national infrastructure. That is a fact. Every time we pull out a phone, use our computers, shop online, talk to your kids on Zoom or whatever — all those things ping through a data center. And the more that we consume data, the higher the demand is for these structures across our country,” he said. People sit and stand in the hallway outside of a full overflow area to watch the Hermantown City Council meeting on monitors. Jed Carlson / Duluth Media Group Hermantown City Administrator John Mulder suggested Monday’s rezoning vote should not be exaggerated in its importance or diminished in the opportunity for continued public input. “This is just a step in the process,” he said. “There is much more to come.” ADVERTISEMENT Nicholas Rinehart said he was drawn to Hermantown largely because of what the city markets itself to provide — namely, “country living with a small-town community feel.” He said the scale of the proposed data center seems out of proportion for what is now a rural setting. “I simply ask, before taking any action on this rezoning, take a step back and look at all these residents gathered around the room, and ask yourself: Is this the Hermantown we want to become?” Rinehart asked. Clarissa Ek, left, wears a fancy red hat in the rain as she protests the proposed data center before the meeting. Jed Carlson / Duluth Media Group Emma Richtman holds a light-up sign as she protests Monday evening. Jed Carlson / Duluth Media Group Richard Ek, left, and Andy Pelland wave to honking cars before the Hermantown City Council meeting. Jed Carlson / Duluth Media Group more by peter passi Subscribers Only Local Google sweetens the deal for proposed Hermantown data center A proposed development agreement and tax-abatement plan revealed new incentives for Hermantown and Google both. 1d ago · By Peter Passi Subscribers Only Local Shoppers Ramp demolition raises 'the $3.045 million question' 1d ago · By Peter Passi Local Duluth's hope for housing on Central site lingers 2d ago · By Peter Passi Local Duluth receives low bid of $33.3 million to rebuild Superior Street 5d ago · By Peter Passi Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags HERMANTOWN TECHNOLOGY GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS EXCLUDE PJ FEATURED HOMEPAGE TOP HEADLINES DULUTH NEWSLETTER By Peter Passi Peter Passi covers city and county government for the Duluth News Tribune. He joined the paper in April 2000, initially as a business reporter but has worked a number of beats through the years. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Hibbing homicide defendant accused of strangling witness 9h ago · By Tom Olsen Local Feds award $27 million for dock wall rebuild, grain elevator demolition 10h ago · By Jimmy Lovrien Local Photos: Spring traffic picks up in Duluth Harbor 13h ago · By Dan Williamson ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT Must Reads Prep Capshaw's throwing excellence puts him in rarified air 4h ago · By Jake Przytarski Minnesota Minnesota GOP chair calls for Royce White to exit U.S. Senate race after abuse allegations 8h ago · By Mary Murphy Minnesota Tied Minnesota House passes bipartisan bills on guns, fake cops, AI ‘nudification’ 14h ago · By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Schuler shifts, UMD adds defenseman from transfer portal 14h ago · By Matt Wellens