Land rezoning proposal for 300MW data center in Frankfort, Indiana rescinded by developer - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Land rezoning proposal for 300MW data center in Frankfort, Indiana rescinded by developer Developer Logistix will reapply with county authorities July 25, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say A land rezoning proposal for a 300MW data center in Frankfort, Indiana, has been rescinded by the developer. Frankfort is located in Clinton County, which is north of Indianapolis. – Getty Images The proposal, filed by Logistix-affiliate Logix Realty LLC on July 3, was to be heard by the Frankfort City Plan Commission on July 23. It proposed changing the zoning of an 833-acre land parcel, bordered by West County Road 0 N/S, West County Road 100 North, and North County Road 300 West, from agriculture to general business. The rezoning would also have moved the land parcel within the jurisdiction of Frankfort. The parcel is currently located in a Tax Increment Financing district controlled by Clinton County, meaning that city authorities cannot vote on the project. Local opposition to the project has been fierce. Judith Sheets, the Mayor of Frankfort, issued a statement on Tuesday addressing the “frustration, fear, and anger circulating throughout our community regarding the proposed data center project.” Logistix told Journal and Courier that the decision to rescind the request came after discussions with city officials and internal deliberation. But according to Doug Swain, the president of Logistix, the project is not being shelved – the company will instead pursue the project with county rather than city authorities. DCD has contacted Logistix for comment. As per a different report from Journal and Courier , Logistix wrote in its application that it would invest more than $10bn in the project, adding that there would likely be one end user. Local opposition to data centers in Indiana has ballooned in tandem with the industry’s presence in the state. In May, Surge Development also withdrew its land rezoning proposal for a data center in Buck Creek Township in response to local opposition. More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 29 Oct 2025 Lumen partners with QTS to bring fiber to new data centers across US Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection Preventing multimillion dollar data center losses through reporting Sponsored When speed outpaces structure: The hyperscale transition gap Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities Tags Clinton County Doug Swain Frankfort Indiana Judith Sheets Logistix Property Group Logix Realty LLC Comments