Court hears arguments over Atlas Power Data Center civil lawsuit Skip to content Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google WILLISTON, N.D. (KUMV) - The Northwest District Court heard arguments Wednesday on a civil lawsuit impacting residents west of Williston due to what they claim is excessive noise pollution. District Judge Kirsten Sjue listened to three parties discuss the validity of a lengthy civil case involving the Atlas Power Data Center. Twenty-two residents who live near the facility are seeking damages over the noise generated by fans. The residents also seek a court order against Williams County arguing it is not following its ordinances stating all noise must be contained to the heavy-industrial zone. “While I admit the novelty of our trespass claim, I think it has real purpose. With regard to the public nuisance [claim], it’s a no-brainer. With regard to the injunction, it’s also a no-brainer,” said J. Robert Keena, an attorney representing the residents. Attorneys for Atlas Power attacked the charges listed in the lawsuit, arguing this is a private nuisance issue since the noise only impacts nearby residents and not the general public as a whole. “There may be cases, in fact, there are cases where there are a public nuisance and a private nuisance at the same time. This is not one of those,” said Doug Daniels, attorney for Atlas Power. Daniels also says the residents should not be able to receive damages as well as injunctive relief. “They can’t sue for that and recover the diminution of the value of their property from this going on forever and also ask for an injunction to stop it from going on forever. Since they pled to the one, they can’t have the other,” said Daniels. For Williams County, Special Assistant State’s Attorney Brian Schmidt says the court should not have jurisdiction over county matters. “If this petition was granted... anytime the courts said, ‘I think you should prosecute this case,’ the county would have no choice. That’s not how the law works. That’s not how the North Dakota Supreme Court said the law works,” said Schmidt. Schmidt adds the argument by the residents that Williams County improperly rezoned the data center’s area to allow them to build is false. “The evidence on the record is undisputed that the county made no zoning decisions with respect to this property within the 30 days prior to the date of summons and complaint or prior to the date of filing with the court,” said Schmidt. Keena filed back on these arguments, saying a court order to the county is necessary since Williams County failed to put a stop to the noise. “We know the ordinance violations are continuing and we know that this lawsuit will not solve it. It may get them paid for some components of it, but it will not stop the violations,” said Keena. No decision was made by Sjue at the hearing. She told the parties she plans to release a written decision at a later date. “We’re very busy in this county. We don’t have any opinion weeks, so basically I have time to work on things when trials settle and as parties know, I don’t have control on that,” said Sjue. Both Daniels and Schmidt mentioned during the hearing that Atlas Power is working on a permanent solution to mitigate the noise. Copyright 2024 KFYR. All rights reserved. Most Read UPDATE: Bismarck crash kills driver, injures child Two men charged in federal court for assault on Standing Rock Sioux Reservation Car crashes through wall of Bismarck business Local ND rapper is sharing the stage with record-breaking hip-hop artists E-40 and Tech N9ne Body of missing man found near Reeder West Oaks Animal Hospital in Minot ending operations in late June No homes damaged as crews battle multiple fires overnight Local couple bringing big changes to Almont Schoolhouse Latest News North Dakota highlights nearly 10 Years of victims’ constitutional rights during National Crime Victims’ Rights Week Where is the geographical center of America? Cattle prices reach historic highs in ‘long overdue’ market shift A first in North Dakota: a new defibrillator implant A first in North Dakota: a new defibrillator implant SERVPRO Athlete of the Week: Minot’s Jayva McKibben KMOT First News at Six Sportscast - 4/24/2026 No severe damage to Minot golf courses following winter snowmobile vandalism