Proposed Menomonie data center put on hold Skip to content Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google MENOMONIE, Wis. (WEAU) - Plans for a $1.6 billion data center in Dunn County have been put on hold. During Monday night’s Menomonie City Council meeting, Menomonie Mayor Randy Knaack announcing he has drafted a memo to Balloonist LLC, the company behind the proposed data center, saying that the city is no longer interested in pursuing the project. Knaack adding that the data center project is paused for now, which is a decision he says he came to after listening to the people of Menomonie and the surrounding area. “For now, I’m not willing to negotiate a development agreement or TID district information,” Knaack said. “It’s a tough decision, maybe, but on the other hand it’s something I had to do to have faith in myself that I could make good decisions for the city of Menomonie.” Regarding the mayor’s announcement, Ward 9 City Council member Sydney Brennan called Knaack’s leadership “deplorable” and “disappointing”, and made a motion to pass a resolution of “no confidence” in Mayor Knaack. She proposed that resolution before the mayor’s announcement. That resolution did not continue because city leaders said it could not be pursued due to not originally being on the evening’s agenda. “I knew he was going to make an announcement about pausing the data center,” Brennan said after the meeting. “Although I agree that we need more information about who the company is, what the project entails, and what it means for our community, by doing a cease and desist at this time in the way he did it just gives a bad reputation to Menomonie and basically gives a big middle finger to companies that we are closed for business.” Mayor Randy Knaack made the following statement regarding the data center development: WEAU’s has extensively covered the proposed data center in Menomonie, and you find our previous coverage here and here . This is a developing story, and we will update it as we learn new information. Copyright 2025 WEAU. All rights reserved. Most Read Eau Claire man dies after motorcycle crash in Buffalo County 3 injured in two-vehicle crash in Trempealeau County 2 people dead after 2 motorcycles collide in Pierce County Mark Hollister announces campaign for Chippewa County Sheriff Missing endangered person alert issued for missing La Crosse man The Yard Container Park in Altoona begins summer hours Eau Claire City Council to vote on $270 million biomanufacturing facility Jesse James named Village of Lake Hallie Chief of Police Latest News SportScene 13 for Friday, April 24th Sportscene 13 for Friday, April 24th 13 First Alert Weather @ 10pm UW-Eau Claire student composes for "James and the Giant Peach" production Hmong Heritage event held at North High School Suspect in custody after La Crosse police respond to shots fired call UW-Eau Claire student composes for “James and the Giant Peach” production Hmong Heritage event held at North High School