Data center developer to buy mobile home park in Archbald Skip to content (Left to right) Candice May, 33; Sandra Goble, 27; and Tina Goble, 50, discuss the pending sale of the Valley View Estates mobile home park for data centers on Monday, Aug. 18, 2025, outside the Gobles’ mobile home on the Eynon Jermyn Road in Archbald. (FRANK WILKES LESNEFSKY / STAFF PHOTO) By Frank Lesnefsky | flesnefsky@scrantontimes.com | The Times-Tribune PUBLISHED: August 19, 2025 at 10:18 AM EDT | UPDATED: August 19, 2025 at 6:18 PM EDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... ARCHBALD — Candice May has an idea of where she’ll move when her home on the Eynon Jermyn Road is sold to make way for data centers, but she worries about her neighbors at the Valley View Estates mobile home park. “I’m going to make sure, no matter what, that my family is taken care of and everything, but I can’t say the same thing for everybody else,” the 33-year-old mother said. “There’s not many people in here, and I feel like why are we going to rock the boat anymore?” May and her partner, Matthew Bucksbee, 34, live in the mobile home park, also known as the Jermyn Mobile Home Village, with their 2-year-old daughter, Nova. They were among about three dozen residents spread out across about a dozen mobile homes who received letters this month notifying them that the property owner had entered into a binding sales agreement with a firm linked to a nearly 1-million-square-foot data center development. Matthew Bucksbee, 34, holds his 2-year-old daughter, Nova, at the Valley View Estates mobile home park in Archbald on Monday, Aug. 18, 2025. (FRANK WILKES LESNEFSKY / STAFF PHOTO) With information scarce, May and her neighbors share whatever they can find. “We are all going through the same stuff, and we’re all trying to figure out what to do,” May said. “It’s not fair to all of us to go through this … and have to be figuring out where to go.” Dated July 26, the letters, which are required under the state’s Manufactured Home Community Rights Act, informed residents that the mobile home park had entered into a sales agreement May 21 with Archbald Developer II LLC. The anticipated transfer of ownership will be next year on April 15, according to a copy of the letter reviewed by The Times-Tribune. Kech Lonhky signed the letter as a managing member of Jermyn Mobile Home Village. Jermyn Mobile Home Village LLC bought the mobile home park seven years ago from Margaret M. Barrett, also known as Margaret M. Egan, for $460,000, according to a property transaction recorded July 18, 2018. Attempts to reach Lonhky were unsuccessful Tuesday. In a phone interview Tuesday, Lackawanna County Commissioner Bill Gaughan vowed to work with residents and use the county’s social services to help them. He called it a disgrace to displace the residents, especially when they already struggle with low incomes and other economic issues. “To me, that is classic exploitation — big business rolls in and displaces people who need this housing, and where else are they going to go?” Gaughan said. “We will help them in any way that we can.” It won’t be the first time Lackawanna County stepped in to help the residents. In 2017, the county negotiated a deal with Pennsylvania American Water and paid $3,900 out of its general fund to restore water to Valley View Estates after the previous owner failed to pay the water bill, totaling more than $20,000. Project Gravity Located at the bottom of the Eynon Jermyn Road just shy of the Jermyn border, the mobile home park is on the outskirts of a proposed data center campus known as Project Gravity, according to the project’s subdivision/land development application form and concept plan obtained by The Times-Tribune in April via a Right to Know Law request. The developer applied with the borough April 2. The Jermyn Mobile Home Village, also known as Valley View Estates, on the Eynon Jermyn Road in Archbald will be sold to a data center developer, as seen Monday, Aug. 18, 2025. (FRANK WILKES LESNEFSKY / STAFF PHOTO) Project Gravity proposes to build at least six two-story data center buildings, each 135,000-square-feet per floor, across 186 acres between Business Route 6 on its western border and the Eynon Jermyn Road on its east, with entrances on both roads. The mobile home park would be just a few hundred feet from the closest data center building, with the main entrance to the data center campus paralleling the entrance to the park, according to the plans. A firm known as Archbald 25 Developer LLC initially filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on Oct. 10 as Western Hospitality Partners-Jermyn LLC under a Denver-based law firm, Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck LLP. That same law firm and one of its paralegals, Meredith Whatley, signed a certificate of organization for Archbald Developer II LLC on May 9, according to the Department of State filing obtained by The Times-Tribune. Western Hospitality Partners-Jermyn LLC signed a memorandum of purchase and sale agreement Oct. 15 to buy the 186.21-acre parcel from property owner Five Up Realty LLC, 805 Enterprise St., Dickson City. James Marzolino signed on behalf of Five Up; Harry Bram signed for Western Hospitality. The agreement, which was recorded with the Lackawanna County recorder of deeds Oct. 21, does not include a sale price. Attempts to reach members of Western Hospitality Partners were unsuccessful Tuesday. Marzolino is involved in two other data center projects in Archbald and Blakely; he is also the president of Kriger Construction. Less than half a mile away from Project Gravity on the Eynon Jermyn Road, Marzolino purchased the Highway Auto Parts junkyard for $1,575,000 this month to build three more data centers for his Archbald Data & Energy Center. He and co-developer Alpesh “Al” Patel of the Dunmore-based Al’s Quick Stop convenience stores recently asked Blakely to rezone residential land along Business Route 6 and Terrace Drive to build four data centers. There are at least six data center campuses proposed for Lackawanna County, with three in Archbald, one in Blakely, one in Jessup and one in Clifton and Covington townships. Looking for a new home As word of the sale and looming data center campus spread through the close-knit mobile home park, residents — many of whom are on fixed incomes — wondered where they would go. Tina Goble, 50, receives Social Security Disability Insurance after injuring her back lifting a patient at a nursing home. She and her 27-year-old daughter, Sandra Goble, moved to the mobile home park from Scranton about five years ago. “Everybody in this trailer park is on a fixed income. Some are handicapped. My daughter has special needs, and there’s little kids in the trailer park,” she said. “Everybody’s just pretty much … “ Before she could finish her thought, one of the kids, Yazmaine, 9, finished Goble’s sentence. “Screwed,” Yazmaine said, drawing a quick rebuke from Goble and her mom, Narda Wallace, 47. Yazmaine, 9, rides her bike through the Valley View Estates mobile home park near her mom, Narda Wallace’s, mobile home on Monday, Aug. 18, 2025. (FRANK WILKES LESNEFSKY / STAFF PHOTO) Goble expects she’ll have to leave Lackawanna County to find cheaper housing in the Wilkes-Barre area. “There’s really nothing around here that I can afford,” she said. Tina Goble, 50, joined by her daughter, Sandra Goble, 27, standing, said there is nothing she can afford in Lackawanna County if she has to leave the Valley View Estates mobile home park. She discussed the struggle to find housing on Monday, Aug. 18, 2025, sitting outside her mobile home on the Eynon Jermyn Road in Archbald. (FRANK WILKES LESNEFSKY / STAFF PHOTO) Tina Goble, 50, joined by her daughter, Sandra Goble, 27, standing, said there is nothing she can afford in Lackawanna County if she has to leave the Valley View Estates mobile home park. She discussed the struggle to find housing on Monday, Aug. 18, 2025, sitting outside her mobile ho