Strategic files for 2.1m sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Strategic files for 2.1m sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia Eight-building campus proposed in Palmetto October 07, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A new data center campus is being proposed outside Atlanta, Georgia. First reported by BisNow and HereAtlanta , Strategic Real Estate Partners has filed to develop a data center campus in Palmetto in Fulton County. – Google Maps Via North Coweta Investors LLC, Strategic recently filed a Developments of Regional Impact application with the Georgia Department of Community Affairs for a 320-acre campus known as Project Peach. Located at 300 Johnston Circle in Palmetto, the campus will comprise up to eight data center buildings totaling 2.1 million sq ft. Further details weren’t shared. The project would be completed by 2036. Strategic declined to comment to BisNow. It’s unclear if the company has an end customer lined up for the project. Atlanta is a major data center hub with operators including Microsoft, CoreSite, QTS, DataBank, Flexential, Switch, DC Blox, Edged Energy, Stack, T5, Vantage, and EdgeConneX. Microsoft and T5 are also developing campuses in the Palmetto area. Atlanta-based Strategic Real Estate Partners was founded in 2019 and handles industrial and commercial real estate transactions, as well as developing sites. The company has been linked to several other proposed data center projects around the greater Atlanta area. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 22 Apr 2026 SK Hynix to invest $12.85bn in advanced packaging plant in Cheongju, South Korea Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 09 Dec 2025 Last Energy to build pilot microreactor in Bryan, Texas, as part of its drive to power data center market Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Georgia Project Peach 300 Johnston Circle Strategic Real Estate Partners Palmetto Fulton County Atlanta Comments