Amazon to build $3bn data center campus in Vicksburg, Mississippi - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Amazon to build $3bn data center campus in Vicksburg, Mississippi Construction to begin in 2026 November 21, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say Amazon will build a $3bn data center campus in Vicksburg, Mississippi. The announcement was made by Governor Tate Reeves on Thursday. – Getty Images The facility is expected to receive power from Entergy Mississippi, and construction of the facility will begin in 2026. Further details about the facility’s location, as well as an estimated completion date, were not provided. Governor Reeves also said that the state would reuse legislation previously used to support the funding of a separate AWS’ facility in Madison County , otherwise known as the Mississippi Major Economic Impact Act. But some are hesitant about the project. Reeves’ Facebook post has attracted concerns about the facility’s potential impact on local utility rates and the environment. Mississippi is not considered a data center hotspot, but Reeves has been campaigning hard to bring operators into the Magnolia state. In the past year, the state has welcomed Compass Datacenters , which will be building a 320MW facility in Meridian, and Avaio , which has announced plans for a new $6bn campus in Rankin County. Vicksburg is part of Warren County, located on Mississippi’s western border with Louisiana. It is west of the state capital, Jackson. More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 18 Mar 2026 Two data center projects debated for 11 hours at planning meeting in Franklin County, Missouri Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 10 Apr 2026 Rehlko secures 1.25GW of natural gas engine capacity from Innio to supply data center market Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags AWS Amazon Amazon Web Services Entergy Madison County Mississippi Tate Reeves US Vicksburg Comments