Aligned tops out Maryland data center - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Aligned tops out Maryland data center Structural work on 72MW facility finished March 12, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Aligned has topped out a data center building in Maryland. Turner Construction Company and Aligned have announced the topping out of the Aligned IAD-06 data center in Frederick, Maryland, marking the completion of the structural phase for the 72MW facility. – Aligned via LinkedIn The two-story, 450,000 sq ft (41,805 sqm) data center sits on a 75‑acre campus within TPG’s Quantum Frederick park. Four buildings totaling 264MW are currently planned. Aligned broke ground on its IAD-04 facility at the site last year . Construction on IAD-06 began five months ago. The construction firm reportedly logged 80,000 man-hours across 345 workers. “Topping out this facility represents more than completing the structural frame,” said Nick Sevier, operations manager, Turner Construction Company. “It reflects the strength of our partnership with Aligned, the dedication of our trade partners, and Turner’s commitment to delivering this complex, high-performance data center safely and efficiently.” TPG Real Estate and Quantum Loophole have been planning and developing a 2,100-acre gigawatt-scale data center park since 2021 . However, Quantum Loophole has since been removed from the project , with TPG becoming the sole developer of the park. As Quantum’s first tenant, Aligned planned to build 3.3 million sq ft (306,580 sqm) of data center capacity at the park. The operator briefly pulled out of plans to develop the campus in mid-2023 after only being granted a provisional exemption for up to 70MW of diesel generators. However, Aligned told DCD in May 2024 that it planned on moving forward with the stalled data center after regulatory changes, with Maryland amending its regulations around backup generators and easing restrictions for data center firms. Aligned will be joined by data centers from Rowan Digital Infrastructure , which is developing 11 buildings across three individual sites within the Quantum Park. Amazon is also set to occupy at least part of the quantum park, filing an air quality permit to deploy 99 generators at an upcoming data center site in the park, totaling more than 258MW of capacity. It’s not clear if Amazon is leasing data centers from either of Aligned or Rowan, developing its own, or a combination of the two. Aligned has campuses in Chicago , Illinois; Dallas , Texas; Salt Lake City , Utah; Phoenix , Arizona; and Northern Virginia . The company has further sites in development in Maryland , Ohio , Illinois , and Virginia . Macquarie Asset Management sold Aligned to a consortium comprising the AI Infrastructure Partnership (AIP), MGX, and BlackRock-owned Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP) last year for $40bn . More in Construction & Site Selection Preventing multimillion dollar data center losses through reporting 21 Jan 2026 Planned Project Atlas data center campus in Coweta, Oklahoma fails to secure backing from planners Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in North America North America data center report 09 Jan 2026 Treaty Oak closes financing and begins construction on two Meta-tied solar projects in Louisiana Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Adamstown Aligned Aligned Data Centers Frederick County IAD-06 Maryland Quantum Frederick Project Turner Turner Construction Comments