Ryan Cos. eyes major tech, industrial hub in Pine Island Skip to content News News Beyond the Skyline Podcast Construction & Development Real Estate Just Sold On the Market Sustainable Spotlight on Small Biz Nation & World Finance & Banking Business calendar Most Read Sections Top Projects Top Women in Finance Reader Rankings Minnesota AEC 350 The Power List Developers The Power List M&A The Power List Construction & Real Estate Law Empowering Women In the Lead Minnesota Icon Rising Young Professionals Top Women in Construction Women Who Lead Experts Forum Trackers Twin Cities Apartment Sales Tracker Twin Cities Hotel Sales Tracker Rochester Sales Tracker Twin Cities Apartment Development Tracker Twin Cities Hotel Development Tracker Rochester Development Tracker Public Notices About FAQ Subscribe Submit a Public Notice Subscribe Subscribe Group subscriptions Press Releases Professional Announcements Contributor Content BTM Business Connect Behind the Deal Advertise & Contact Advertising About Us Contact Us Plaques & Permissions Events Events Webinars Category: - date_display: Category: - date_display: Category: - date_display: Category: - date_display: Category: - date_display: Category: - date_display: Category: - date_display: Category: - date_display: Category: - date_display: Category: - date_display: Category: - date_display: Category: - date_display: Category: - date_display: Category: - date_display: Category: - date_display: Category: - date_display: Technology center, light industrial pitched for Pine Island site Brian Johnson // March 19, 2025 // Ryan Cos. US Inc. is looking to bring an industrial development to a 482-acre site framed by 490th Street to the north, Highway 52 to the west and south, and 195th Avenue to the east in Pine Island north of Rochester. (Image: Stantec) Home > News > Construction & Development > Technology center, light industrial pitched for Pine Island site Ryan Cos. US Inc. is looking to bring an industrial development to a 482-acre site framed by 490th Street to the north, Highway 52 to the west and south, and 195th Avenue to the east in Pine Island north of Rochester. (Image: Stantec) Technology center, light industrial pitched for Pine Island site Brian Johnson // March 19, 2025 // Listen to this article Minneapolis-based Ryan Cos. US Inc. is exploring development opportunities that could bring millions of square feet of new technology space or light industrial uses to the Goodhue County community of Pine Island . Ryan, along with Stantec Consulting Services, is working on the environmental review process for a 482-acre site framed by 490th Street to the north, Highway 52 to the west and south, and 195th Avenue to the east in Pine Island, which is north of Rochester on Highway 52. A 172-page environmental review document, released Tuesday , reveals that Ryan is looking at one of two development “scenarios” for “Project Skyway,” including an up to 3 million-square-foot technology center with up to 150,000 square feet of office space. The technology center could include “a combination of office space and data center uses, and associated mechanical and electrical equipment,” according to the Alternative Urban Areawide Review (AUAR) document. Another scenario envisions up to 2.2 million square feet of industrial buildings, a 620,000-square-foot technology center, and 31,000 square feet of office uses, according to the AUAR, which notes that both scenarios consider the “full build-out” of the site. At present, the site consists primarily of “agricultural land and rural residences,” according to the AUAR. Development “would be ongoing for the next several years,” with full buildout “assumed to occur in 2035,” depending on market conditions. The city is taking comments on the AUAR through April 17. The AUAR looks at potential impacts on everything from noise and traffic to historic properties and greenhouse gas emissions. Peter Fitzgerald, vice president of real estate development for Ryan Cos., said in an email, “An environmental review is required for this campus and any potential impacts will be studied prior to project approvals being considered by the city of Pine Island. “For the remainder of the year, we are working closely with the city of Pine Island and other project partners on land use entitlements. Entitlements, site work, and required infrastructure will happen over time. We anticipate that portions of the campus could be under construction in the next two years.” Asked about potential users, Fitzgerald said, “We’re not prioritizing tenants at this time; our primary focus is on land use approvals and the environmental review.” At a recent Pine Island City Council meeting , Fitzgerald said the AUAR process is the start of a “long journey.” This year will be devoted to “seeking support for land use approvals [from the council]. And this is just the very beginning stages of what will be many, many more meetings,” Fitzgerald said. Elizabeth Howard, Pine Island’s city administrator, said the city has approved the scoping of the AUAR and is working with the developers on “what the next steps look like once the comment period has closed next month.” Fitzgerald told the council that Ryan Cos. just completed a similar process with the former Thomson Reuters campus at 610 Opperman Drive in Eagan, which is up for redevelopment with industrial and residential uses. RELATED: Price for Thomson Reuters campus is $41 million Tags: Ryan Cos. US Inc. , Minnesota development , environmental review , industrial space , data centers , Pine Island Share this! Related Content Lino Lakes has booming housing and a potential legal dispute Lino Lakes faces uncertainty over a 400-unit housing project as litigation looms, while major residential and [...] April 24, 2026 Affordable apartments pitched for St. Paul site Developers JB Vang and DC Commercial have proposed a 60- to 80-unit affordable housing project in St. Paul’s[...] April 23, 2026 Vadnais Heights housing growth driven by multifamily projects Vadnais Heights growth is driven by new multifamily housing, including a 360-unit project, as limited land pus[...] April 22, 2026 Lakeville housing moratorium halts development until April 2027 Lakeville imposes housing moratorium through April 2027, pausing new residential development amid growth conce[...] April 22, 2026 U of M’s Northrop achieves LEED Gold certification The University of Minnesota’s Northrop building achieved LEED Gold certification, marking the first U of M f[...] April 22, 2026 Kraus-Anderson completes clinic renovation in Waconia Kraus-Anderson completed a 10,000-square-foot renovation of the Lakeview Clinic in Waconia, updating interior [...] April 22, 2026 Finance & Commerce Daily Newsletter Sign up for your daily digest of Minnesota News. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy Upcoming business events See the full list of events here Editor’s Picks U.S. job growth rebounds by most in 15 months 4/3/2026 Rogers approves TIF for 181-unit apartment redevelopment 3/12/2026 Aeon withdraws from Minneapolis Kmart site RFP 3/12/2026 Veriton pays $72M for Twin Cities retail strip mall portfolio 3/11/2026 Minnesota energy code debate tied to rising home costs 3/11/2026 News Lino Lakes has booming housing and a potential legal dispute Lino Lakes faces uncertainty over a 400-unit housing project as litigation looms, while major reside[...] Q&A: Bloomington’s lead planner talks zoning policy and 2050 Bloomington planning leaders highlight housing policy, zoning reforms and 2050 comprehensive plan ef[...] DOJ ends investigation into Fed Chair Jerome Powell The Justice Department ends its probe into Fed Chair Jerome Powell, clearing a hurdle for Kevin Wars[...] Just Sold: CEO buys event venue in Cambridge woods Krysta Corrigan, CEO and event director of Pinewood Wedding and Events, and her husband bought the e[...] Warsh’s call for new Fed inflation measure sparks debate Fed chair nominee Kevin Warsh pushes new 