Tract acquires 8,590 acres in Reno, Nevada, for data center park - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Tract acquires 8,590 acres in Reno, Nevada, for data center park Company now has more than 11,000 acres in Reno June 19, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Tract has acquired another 8,590 acres of land in Reno, Nevada. The company has now assembled more than 11,000 acres across three separate projects around Reno for data center development. The company, which develops master-planned data center parks that other companies can build data centers, this week announced its acquisition of an 8,590-acre project within Storey County, which closed in February. Tract broke ground on its first few thousand acres of land in Reno earlier this year – Tract The development site is located between the Tahoe-Reno Industrial Center (TRIC) and the Virginia City Highlands, southeast of Lockwood. Tract said the land is zoned for industrial use with a wide range of pre-approved uses, inclusive of data centers and commercial energy production. “This acquisition provides a unique opportunity for Tract to create a master-planned site responsive to the requirements of the next generation of hyperscale data center design,” said Grant van Rooyen, CEO of Tract. “The location, zoning, and scale of the site allow us the flexibility to support multiple use cases looking over the horizon of data center architecture.” Tract officially launched last year with plans for a 2GW, 2,200-acre development in Reno , Nevada. The company initially acquired 686 acres along Peru Drive in the TRIC, before buying an additional 517 acres inside the industrial park. The company broke ground on the original Reno site in May. The Peru Shelf Technology Park, spanning 686 acres within the TRIC, will support up to 810MW of utility capacity at full build-out. Tract also has 510 acres adjacent to the Peru Shelf project currently in the planning stages. The Peru Shelf development is expected to receive initial power delivery in late 2026 or early 2027. Tract is also planning the South Valley Technology Park, located seven miles southeast along USA Parkway; a 1,500-acre, 1,200MW project it says can potentially support up to seven individual campuses. Tract says it owns or is under contract on more than 20,000 acres across the United States, which are in various stages of rezoning, design, or horizontal construction. The company is led by van Rooyen, president of the van Rooyen Group and founder of US data center firm Cologix. Stonepeak Infrastructure Partners acquired a majority stake in the company in 2017. As well as Reno , the company has announced plans for a 668-acre campus in Eagle Mountain , Utah, and a 46-building data center campus outside Richmond , Virginia, is also in the works. The company recently withdrew an application for another major campus in the Buckeye area of Phoenix, Arizona, but has told DCD it has plans for further development there on a different site. DCD spoke to Tract CEO Grant van Rooyen about the company’s ambitions in our latest magazine, due out soon. Sign up to read DCD>Magazine for free today . Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 18 Nov 2025 Soluna completes expansion of Project Dorothy 2 site in West Texas, adding 48MW Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 25 Mar 2026 Telesat adds military Ka-Band to Lightspeed constellation, following defense demands Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Tract Reno Storey County Nevada Comments