Officials in Meade County, Kentucky, reject data center rezoning plan - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Officials in Meade County, Kentucky, reject data center rezoning plan Proposal concerned a 138-acre site October 20, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say Officials in Meade County, Kentucky, have rejected a data center proposal. The Meade County Fiscal Court met last week and voted against a proposal to change the zoning designation of a 138-acre site along Joe Prather Highway to light industrial use for a potential data center development. The land parcel – Google Maps In Kentucky, ‘Fiscal Court’ is the term used to describe the legislature and governing body of every county in the state. Opposition to the facility has been fierce. Concerns were expressed about the facility’s water and electricity usage, its impact on the environment, and the urgency of the planning process. The county’s Planning and Zoning Commission had also voted against recommending the proposal. A Change.org petition to stop the development, located at 25025 Joe Prather Highway in Ekron, gathered more than 2,800 signatures. Few details about the project or the company behind it were shared. Meade County is located southwest of Louisville, the state’s largest city and one of its data center hotspots. Although Kentucky has traditionally not been a prominent data center market, there has been a recent influx of interest. Opposition to data centers has also grown. Officials in Oldham County , which is northeast of Louisville, passed a 150-day moratorium on all data center projects in July of this year following local opposition, new and current development. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 13 Mar 2026 Crusoe launches Edge offering with self-made modular AI data centers Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 17 Mar 2026 Google confirmed as company behind $500m data center in Lima, Ohio Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 25025 Joe Prather Highway Ekron Kentucky Meade County US Comments