340-acre data center campus planned in Tulsa, Oklahoma - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 340-acre data center campus planned in Tulsa, Oklahoma Company behind Project Anthem unclear March 08, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A new data center campus is being proposed in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Tulsa World reports developers are proposing a 340-acre data center project known as Project Anthem at the intersection of 11th Street and the west side of the Creek Turnpike. The site of Project Anthem – Google Maps The Tulsa Metropolitan Area Planning Commission unanimously voted to recommend approval of the city’s project plan for a proposed tax incentive program. City staff had recommended approval. It is expected to go to the City Council for its consideration later this month. “We are grateful for the Planning Commission’s action today, which paves the way for investment at the Fair Oaks Industrial Park,” said Kian Kamas, executive director of Partner Tulsa, the city’s economic development arm. “We look forward to continuing to work with key partners in the coming weeks as we advance additional actions related to the Tax Incentive District (TID).” Construction on the $800 million site is set to take three years. Further details on the scope of the build-out aren’t available at this time. Under the TID, the project would see the owners receive 85 percent annual exemption on his property tax bill. It's unclear which company is behind Project Anthem. Tulsa World suggests it could be Meta, based on the investment amount matching other projects from the social media firm. The Fair Oaks Industrial Park is a 2,000-acre industrial park along US-412 and two miles of frontage on I-444, sitting at the intersection of US-412 and I-44. It is part of a larger 5,000-acre master planned development. Neither Tulsa, nor Oklahoma more generally, has a major data center ecosystem. Google operates a data center campus to the east of Tulsa in Pryor, Mayes County. Announced in 2007, it launched a facility there back in 2011 and has expanded at regular intervals since. TierPoint operates several data centers in Tulsa . Last year, Tonaquint acquired an EdgeX data center in Oklahoma City. A crypto firm is planning a 200MW campus in Muskogee. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 13 Nov 2025 CBRE: European AI data center capacity triples as neocloud demand rises Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America North America data center report 18 Dec 2025 Fermi denies Amazon was tenant that exited Texas data center deal Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Google Project Anthem Wagoner County Meta Tulsa Oklahoma Comments