Santa Clara, CA and Colocation in CA - EdgeConneX Search Search Home / Americas / Santa Clara, CA SVC01 Santa Clara Data Center Empower Your Edge in Santa Clara, CA The Santa Clara EdgeConneX Edge Data Center® (EDC) is purpose-built and precisely located in order to provide a secure colocation facility for customers delivering content, connectivity, cloud services, and applications to local-market consumers, with the lowest possible latency. Partnering with network and cable operators at the local level, our carrier neutral facility guarantees the shortest and fastest routes for delivering content to local market subscribers (consumer and enterprise) and Internet customers. EdgeConneX Santa Clara SVC01 data center earned ENERGY STAR® certification from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. This certification represents proven, verified superior energy performance over a 12-month period. Download Data Sheet Request a Virtual Tour Capacity Quote Our Santa Clara Data Center at a Glance Some facts and figures you need to know about our data canter in Santa Clara, CA Size 19,800 sq. ft. facility 4 Miles from San Jose Int'l Airport 2 Miles from downtown Santa Clara 11,700 sq. ft raised floor Specifications Space 19,800 sq ft facility 11,700 sq ft of raised floor for tenant racks Within 2 miles of downtown Santa Clara and 4 miles from San Jose International Airport Customer work space available Space available for secure customer storage WiFi network access and cell phone repeaters/boosters throughout the facility Power Concurrently maintainable power in a minimum of an N+1 configuration to include: – PDU – UPS – Generators Capable of 20+kW per cabinet Capable of 600+ watts/sq ft Ghost space not required for cooling power dense installations Real-time branch circuit monitoring Cooling Temperature and humidity monitored, controlled and managed to industry standards 30 inch raised/under floor forced air plenum N+1 CRACs located in separate suites, maximizing customer- designated areas Security Multi-stage security containment systems that use PIN and live video authentication Mantraps and strictly enforced protocols regarding entry access 24/7 Color CCTV/video surveillance and >90-day online video storage Interior managed security zones National network operations center for security management 24/7 NOC services Network Building POEs are diverse, with a variety offiber conduits to physically diverse MMR’s Arelion, Astound, AT&T, Cogent, Comcast, Comcast Business, Hurricane Electric, Layer 42, Lumen, Paxio, Silicon Valley Fiber, Verizon, WhiteSky, Zayo Interconnection services available Fire Suppression Pre-action, zoned dry-pipe sprinkler systems with zoned maintenance aisles and separate suites Additional Services Remote hands services for break fixes, configuration and troubleshooting EdgeConneX Services: design, build, implement and maintain your equipment infrastructure HIPAA, SOC 2 Type 2, PCI-DSS, ISO 27001 compliant EdgeOS Our unique self-service management application, offering visibility into every aspect of data center operations across all EdgeConneX facilities, from a single pane of glass. Learn More About Our Data Center in Santa Clara, CA Use this form to request more information or schedule a data center tour in Santa Clara. Or, call us at +1.866.304.3217. X/Twitter This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. First Name * Last Name * Email * Message CAPTCHA download × Close Panel