Data center in St Charles, Missouri, receives partial recommendation for approval - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Data center in St Charles, Missouri, receives partial recommendation for approval End user unknown July 25, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say A proposal for a data center in St. Charles, Missouri, has been partially recommended for approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission. This decision was made on July 14. Location of the proposed facility – City of St Charles Missouri Planning and Zoning Commission The proposed site is located on both the north and south sides of Highway 370 and between Huster Road and Harry S Truman Boulevard, which is in the City of St. Charles. This falls under the jurisdiction of the St. Charles County Planning and Zoning Commission. The proposal has two parts. The first, which was recommended for approval, is a site plan for a data center, which would offer 1.5 million sq ft (139,354 sqm) of space when built on the 440-acre land parcel. The second, which was denied a recommendation for approval, is a request for a Conditional Use Permit for the handling of liquid petroleum products and electrical power generators. The permit is required because diesel fuel will be handled within the wellhead protection district, which is a regulated area of land surrounding a water well or wellfield. Both will now be voted on by the city council. During the meeting, members of the public expressed concern about the size and placement of the facility, the usage of diesel fuel, and the potential impact of the development on flood patterns. The end user of the facility is currently unknown. CRG Cumulus LLC, which shares the same address as US construction contractor Clayco, is the applicant. Clayco said it had completed or is currently undertaking more than $12.7 billion in advanced technology projects, with 57 active data center projects totaling around 3GW across the US. St. Charles is located west of St. Louis. Missouri’s data centers are mostly clustered around Kansas City and St. Louis. Operators in the state include TierPoint, H5, Netrality, Cogent, Lumen, Iron Mountain, Edged Energy, and Rackspace. More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 06 Jan 2026 Skybox eyes six-building data center campus in San Angelo, Texas Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 05 Mar 2026 Greencoat Renewables launches digital infrastructure plaform, plans 36MW data center project in Drogheda, Ireland Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment Tags CRG Cumulus LLC City of St Charles Clayco Missouri St Charles County Planning and Zoning Commission Comments