SMR developer Deep Atomic proposes nuclear-powered AI data center at Idaho National Lab - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel SMR developer Deep Atomic proposes nuclear-powered AI data center at Idaho National Lab If approved, the project is expected to serve as a national demonstration site for future nuclear-powered AI infrastructure December 02, 2025 By Zachary Skidmore Have your say Small modular reactor (SMR) developer Deep Atomic has submitted a groundbreaking proposal to the US Department of Energy’s (DOE) Office of Nuclear Energy for the "nation's first" fully integrated nuclear-powered AI data center campus at the Idaho National Laboratory, in Idaho Falls, Idaho. MK60 SMR – Deep Atomic The project is being developed by a consortium of companies, including Parker Tide LLC, Clayco, Gleeds, Paragon Energy Solutions, EvapCo Dry Cooling, Bedrock Labs, Azimuth Renewables, Future-Tech, and MoonliteAI. The proposal comprises an integrated energy and data center campus, enabling data center operations to begin within 24-36 months using grid, geothermal, and solar power. The companies claim this phased approach will allow Deep Atomic’s MK60 SMR to proceed through design certification, fabrication, and commissioning. The MK60 is a light water SMR with a generation capacity of 60MW of electricity, 60MW of integrated cooling capacity, and 200MW of thermal output. “The MK60 is engineered specifically for AI and HPC loads – this is not a repurposed power plant, but a dual-output SMR built for compute. By combining 60MW of clean electricity with 60MW of cooling, we unlock new levels of efficiency and resilience. This project is the blueprint for nuclear-powered AI campuses globally,” said William Theron, CEO, Deep Atomic. If approved, the companies have said that the project is expected to serve as a national demonstration site for nuclear-powered AI infrastructure, providing a replicable model for federal campuses, national labs, cloud providers, and private operators. In addition, the partners claim that the MK-series architecture will allow for future expansion through the deployment of additional reactor modules and data center blocks. “This is a defining moment. The US cannot meet its strategic AI ambitions without firm, clean, and scalable power. Our consortium is uniquely positioned to deliver a secure, DOE-aligned model that integrates advanced nuclear energy with hyperscale AI infrastructure. INL is the perfect home for this historic first,” said Shane Todd, senior program director, Parker Tide. Deep Atomic officially announced plans for the SMR late last year . According to Deep Atomic, the SMR is suited to the full suite of data center operations, including traditional cloud services, cryptocurrency operations, and AI applications. In August , the INL was announced as the location of the US DOE’s Nuclear Reactor Pilot Program. The DOE selected 11 advanced nuclear reactors to join the program, where it will support the companies in constructing, operating, and achieving criticality for at least three test reactors using the DOE authorization process by July 4, 2026. More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 27 Mar 2026 Two data centers to be built at life science campus outside London, UK Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Critical Power Market review | Australia 2026 05 Nov 2025 B&W to supply Applied Digital with more than 1GW of natural gas power for AI data centers Episode Securing the data center power chain in the AI era Tags Azimuth Renewables Bedrock Labs Clayco DOE Deep Atomic EvapCo Dry Cooling Future-tech Gleeds Idaho Idaho Falls Idaho National Laboratory MK60 MoonliteAI Nuclear Paragon Energy Solutions Parker Tide SMR US Department of Energy US Department of Energy Office of Nuclear Energy small modular reactor Comments