AI Hallucination? Proposed Westfield data center appears abandoned by developers – The Shoestring Connect with us Hi, what are you looking for? A rendering of the proposed Westfield data center. Image: Westmass Area Development Corp. WESTFIELD — When in May 2021 a group of developers approached the city of Westfield with a big plan for a big data center, an early release of OpenAI’s GPT3 — a precursor model to what would become ChatGPT — was still six months away from opening to software developers for testing. Some at the time wondered if the data center would be used for mining cryptocurrencies and NFTs. Now five years later, AI companies’ demand for computing power and electricity has exploded. An August report from consulting firm McKinsey found that “to deliver the required data center infrastructure, the United States alone will need to more than triple its annual power capacity over the next five years.” Amid that AI-infrastructure boom, Servistar Realties’ proposal to build a “state-of-the-art hyper-scale data center campus” in Westfield seems practically clairvoyant. Last November, The Boston Globe mused about which tech giant would set up shop at the new facility: “Will it be Amazon, Alphabet, or maybe Microsoft?” To call it the largest data center in Massachusetts would have been an understatement. At the estimated loads, it would draw 10 times more power than the existing largest data center in the state — a 30-megawatt facility located in the heart of Boston’s financial district owned by the Markley Group. It would also eclipse the electricity draw of all existing data centers in the state combined . It would draw four to five times more power than the entire city of Westfield, which consumes 85 megawatts at its peak, according to Westfield Gas and Electric General Manager Tom Flaherty. But years after the Westfield City Council approved big tax cuts for the project — and even following the state approving a sales and use tax exemption for large data centers last year — the project is not yet shovel ready. In fact, it appears to be abandoned, according to The Shoestring’s investigation of public records. Emails The Shoestring obtained through a public records request found that following the approval of Servistar’s special permit in October 2021, a mailed copy of the permit was returned to the city as “refused” delivery, and there has been no contact between the developers and the city of Westfield since. While it’s unclear why the permit was refused, a copy was later emailed to Servistar members, and it still remains active due to a two-year state extension on permitting because of the COVID-19 pandemic. But, according to city planner Jay Vinskey, time is running out. “If they don’t at least pull a building permit by next October, they’d need to show cause or re-permit,” Vinskey said. Additional permitting required by the Massachusetts Environmental Protection Act was never filed either. Originally, Servistar told city officials it planned to file those permit applications in January 2022. Instead, that February it withdrew from a site study related to necessary grid improvements on the property, which has two high voltage power lines owned by Eversource running through it. According to Flaherty, re-entering the queue for service with ISO New England to complete the grid study would itself take at least two years. None of these prerequisites can currently be addressed because, at the end of 2024, Servistar’s limited liability corporation was administratively dissolved by the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office for failing to file annual reports two years in a row. While reinstatement is possible after such dissolutions, as things currently stand the company is only legally allowed to conduct business related to liquidating its assets and winding down its affairs. None of the three equal members of Servistar — Erik Bartone, Paul Corey, and Connecticut state Sen. John Fonfara — responded to multiple requests for comment from The Shoestring. In March , Fonfara told the news outlet CT Insider that the project had been dead for two years due to a lack of financing, and he was no longer involved. The men are all from Connecticut’s energy sector. Fonfara and Bartone had previously partnered on a separate venture. Wattifi was an electric supplier in Connecticut that collapsed in 2023 under $1.17 million in state fines . That scandal, which came to light last March while Fonfara was seeking to become chair of Connecticut’s Public Utilities Regulatory Agency, lead some at that agency to recommend the company’s leadership “should not be permitted to engage with the electric supplier market or electric utility customers in any capacity in the future,” according to reporting by the Energy and Policy Institute . *** The data-center project promised to be a big development for Westfield. Proponents noted that it would have made Servistar the city’s biggest tax payer “from day one.” It would have been set on a sprawling 156-acres assembled from 16 unrelated lots into a shape not dissimilar to the state of Texas. The land is bisected by two 115,000 volt Eversource transmission lines, on top of the Barnes Aquifer and marshy endangered turtle habitat, and next to the airport. The Shoestring is powered by donations from readers like you, and until Jan. 1, those donations are matched. Can you make a tax-deductible gift today? Planning documents show that the developers envisioned building 2.7 million square feet of slab-on-grade, steel framed, “modern” glass and wall panels for “data server space, office and conference room space, loading dock, high-efficiency and redundant heating, ventilating, cooling and plumbing systems” across a campus of 10 data center buildings. Each building would measure 86 feet tall from elevator penthouse to curb, flanked on one exterior wall by backup diesel generators and fuel tanks sized between 6,500 to 13,000 gallons. “I would guess it wouldn’t change per building,” Servistar Realties member Erik Bartone told the Westfield Planning Board in 2021, referring to the size of the fuel tanks. (Environmentalists have been critical of the recent data center boom, which has seen tech companies go to extreme measures to run the power-hungry facilities, largely using fossil fuels. In April, xAI was allegedly found to be operating double the number of natural gas turbines it was permitted for in order to power its “Colossus” super computer facility. xAI is the Elon Musk-owned company behind the Grok chatbot. ) Fencing and block walls would have surrounded a new electrical substation with a dedicated transmission interconnect to the two 115 kV high-voltage transmission lines, according to a project narrative submitted to the city of Westfield. “The substation would exclusively serve the project,” the documents say. “Onsite transformers will be used to step down the power to 34.5 kV voltage that will be supplied to each of the data center buildings through a loop system” supported by an additional 200,000 square feet of accessory buildings housing electrical load balancing equipment, battery storage, and 2N redundant natural gas generators. A rendering of Servistar’s proposed data-center campus in Westfield. (Source: Servistar planning documents) The project seemed to be advancing smoothly at first. “As always, bicycle parking accommodation should be considered,” Vinskey, the city planner, noted in his 2021 review of Servistar’s special permit application. However, when The Shoestring contacted city officials recently, they said they were in the dark about the project’s future. “I don’t have any insight on the status of this,” is how Vinskey put it. *** While little has been done in terms of progress towards building any data center, Servistar has shown they are skilled at negotiating favorable terms for these projects. Massachusetts law allows municipalities to exempt development projects on “blighted” or “decadent” land from standa