Citizens call for data center contract transparency in Lansing Skip to content Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google LANSING, Mich. (WILX) - The Lansing Board of Water and Light Commission is set to decide whether managers at BWL should have sole control over approving data center contracts. Community members say they want their voices heard on the subject, since there are unanswered questions about how data centers can impact the community. “We’ve seen spikes in peoples’ electric rates from that new demand, that new load. It’s a pretty significant amount of power that’s needed to run these data centers,” said Chris Trubac, Ingham County District 3 Commissioner. A power struggle is unfolding in Michigan as communities debate the impact of new data center projects. Now that developers like UK-based Deep Green are setting their sights on Lansing, Trubac said it’s important for citizens to get a say. “Really my concern is just that I want to make sure that peoples’ voices are heard and that we really take the time to scrutinize these contracts and these agreements to ensure that people are protected, and that these things do go the way that we plan them,” Trubac said. The Lansing Board of Water and Light invited the Deep Green project, which outlines a 24-megawatt data center. That kind of facility generates a lot of heat, which would be provided for free to the BWL’s downtown water system. “It’s about $1.1 million in savings that will allow us to reduce our budget,” said Dick Peffley, BWL General Manager, at the project’s announcement earlier this month. The Board of Water and Light Commission could empower General Manager Dick Peffley to give final approval on contracts like this one, on behalf of the board. Lansing League of Women Voters President Kathy Petroni said giving Peffley that power would significantly limit the opportunity for public input on these projects. “It’s really important because the Board of Water and Light serves the people of Lansing, and if the Board of Water and Light were to enter a contract that adversely affected the Board of Water and Light, that would have a negative impact on the people of Lansing,” Petroni said. The League recently sent a letter to the BWL Commission , asking its members to reject the resolution that would give Peffley, and future BWL managers, contract approval power. The resolution states the “General Manager or an appropriate designee is authorized to finalize and execute on behalf of the BWL a Special Electric Service Contract and any other necessary related or supporting contracts or agreements for the above-mentioned projects with the prospective customers.” Other residents joined the League by sending letters of their own, expressing concerns about the long-term economic and environmental impacts of data centers. The Michigan Public Service Commission recently approved special terms of service between Consumers Energy and data centers, designed to protect customers. Some people are calling for similar rules for companies like DTE and BWL to ensure that public comment is available as a project is being considered. Meanwhile, an Ingham County commission is set to hold its own resolution vote on Wednesday to officially state its desire for data center transparency and clear communication about what a proposed project entails. The Ingham County Board of Commissioners Environmental Affairs Commission will vote on a resolution calling for transparency and careful scrutiny of these projects. will meet on Wed. Nov 19 at 5:30 p.m., in the Human Services Building, to vote on the resolution. Subscribe to our News 10 newsletter and YouTube page to receive the latest local news and weather. Looking to hire people, or grow your business through advertising? Gray Digital Media is your one-stop marketing solution. Learn more. Copyright 2025 WILX. All rights reserved. Most Read 5-year-old, 14-year-old girls among 6 injured in mass shooting south of Downtown Lansing Body of missing Corunna High School grad found Inmate at Jackson prison dies after falling from upper floor; Two other inmates also fell this week Missing 8-month-old found safe after Grand Ledge advisory Michigan is off the hook in lawsuit over 2020 dam collapse that flooded communities Woman sentenced to life in prison for beating 6-year-old stepson to death at Delta Twp. hotel Woman accused of stabbing friend, assaulting officer after arrest in Jackson County East Lansing cancels Friday’s After Class Bash due to rain Latest News Father braves flames to save twin daughters from house fire Study shows teen suicide rates lower than expected in recent years Senator Peters presses energy secretary on frozen dam funding MSU engineering students showcase capstone projects at Design Day Jackson man arrested after allegedly threatening person with gun Father braves flames to save twin daughters from house fire Mason plants Liberty Trees to celebrate America’s 250th birthday America 250: Freedom Truck brings interactive history museum to Hillsdale