Crusoe confirms Microsoft as customer at campus in Abilene, Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Crusoe confirms Microsoft as customer at campus in Abilene, Texas Cloud giant will lease 900MW March 27, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say Crusoe has officially confirmed that Microsoft has signed on to take the remaining capacity at its Abilene, Texas, campus. Microsoft has signed an agreement for 900MW of capacity, including two new buildings and an on-site power plant. Each of the two new buildings will offer 336MW of IT capacity. The existing Crusoe campus in Abilene – OpenAI/Stargate The lease will bring the total projected capacity at the site to 2.1GW. Microsoft's data centers will sit on land adjacent to the existing Abilene campus, being used by OpenAI and Oracle. Land works are already underway, and the first building is expected to be energized in mid-2027. Reports that Microsoft was set to take over capacity at the site emerged earlier this week , though the cloud giant was at the time only expected to lease 700MW. "We're excited to welcome Microsoft to the Abilene community. Crusoe's existing data center campus has already contributed thousands of direct jobs to Abilene and fueled the local economy,” said Weldon Hurt, Mayor, City of Abilene. “This new project will further strengthen our local economy; supporting our restaurants, our home builders, while creating high-paying jobs for Abilene citizens. We're proud to be growing alongside partners who are committed to doing this right for Abilene." “As customer demand for AI continues to grow, Microsoft is focused on ensuring access to reliable and responsible infrastructure at scale,” added Noelle Walsh, president, Cloud Operations & Innovation at Microsoft. “Crusoe’s Abilene facility reflects the type of large-scale infrastructure that supports next-generation AI while contributing long-term value to the local community.” The onsite power plant will provide 900MW of behind-the-meter energy to Microsoft, paired with an MV BESS system. Oracle and OpenAI were previously expected to take up all the capacity at the campus, but scaled back their plans earlier this year, instead opting to call it quits at 1.2GW - or around eight data center buildings. OpenAI said of the decision that they would be putting the additional capacity in other locations. Microsoft has been expanding its footprint rapidly and brought 1GW of data center capacity online in the last quarter alone. In 2025 as a whole, 2GW were stood up by the company. Last week, Microsoft revealed it would no longer be seeking nondisclosure agreements (NDAs) for its data center projects, citing a need for improved transparency with local communities. More in Colocation & Wholesale NTT Global Data Centers Guide to India data center expansion 08 Jan 2026 B&W to use Siemens Energy gensets to power Applied Digital AI data center 09 Mar 2026 Edge data center firm Duos partners with Hydra Host for Nvidia cluster deployment Tags Abilene Crusoe Microsoft Noelle Walsh Texas Weldon Hurt Comments