One Of The East Coast's Best Race Tracks Is Reportedly Closing For Good - The Autopian Youtube Facebook-f Twitter Instagram Rss Menu Night Panel Disable Night Panel Menu Home » One Of The East Coast’s Best Race Tracks Is Reportedly Closing For Good One Of The East Coast’s Best Race Tracks Is Reportedly Closing For Good By Brian Silvestro October 2, 2025 4:37 pm 59 Comments I’ve lived on the East Coast my entire life, and during that time, I’ve visited my fair share of race tracks. Lime Rock Park, Watkins Glen International, New Jersey Motorsport Park, New York Safety Track—the list goes on. While Watkins is still my favorite on this side of the country, Pittsburgh International Race Complex comes in a close second. Pitt Race, as it’s known in racer circles, is a 2.78-mile road course nestled in the rolling hills about 40 miles north of the city with which it’s named. While it doesn’t have as vast a history as some of the tracks mentioned above—it opened in 2002 as BeaveRun Motorsports Complex—the 400-acre facility has quickly become a hub of motorsports activity in the area, hosting numerous club races, enduro events, karting leagues, and autocross programs throughout the year. The track’s current owners, Jim and Kathy Stout, purchased Pitt Race out of bankruptcy in 2010. Jim is a big Viper guy, having started his closed-course driving career in 2000 with a ’96 Viper GTS. Back when he and his wife bought the track, it was just 1.6 miles long, and used a layout Jim considered boring, according to an interview he did with Speed News back in 2023. So the duo decided to add an entirely new track just south of the original asphalt, which, when combined with the old circuit, made the 2.78-mile road course many know and love today. Source: Pitt Race I never drove Pitt Race before the second track was added, nor did I ever get to drive either track separately. All of my seat time was on the combined circuit, and damn, it was excellent. Full of quick corners, blind turns, and lots of rhythm, you could really get into a groove with slow or fast cars alike. Stout took inspiration from other tracks to make it happen. From that Speed News interview: I owned part of [Virginia International Raceway] for a while and VIR always has been and still is one of my favorite tracks to drive. But when we ran the Viper Racing League, we ran everything from Brainerd to Sebring and Daytona to the tracks in the West Coast, Willow Springs and Thunderhill and everything in between. We had a heck of a lot of track experience and I kind of knew what I liked and knew what I didn’t like. I do like elevation changes, I like blind turns. I like the track. It has, and I think you mentioned the term rhythm. The track has some rhythm and flows nice. So, when we got done with the track I was very, very pleased with what we have. Very pleased. Pitt Race might not be as well-known as Watkins Glen or Lime Rock Park simply due to its location, but it’s hosted some well-known events, like the 24 Hours of Lemons, ChampCar, GridLife, Tire Rack’s One Lap of America, and, of course, the Pittsburgh Vintage Grand Prix. This place is important to a lot of people. The track’s karting program looks incredibly fun. Source: Pitt Race on Facebook And now, it’s seemingly going away for good. Kathy Stout published a statement to Pitt Race’s Facebook page yesterday announcing the sale of the facility: The Final Season of Pitt Race: A message from Jim and Kathy Stout – When the checkered flag is thrown, the green flag is waved for the next race. Pitt Race has been out passion. Westrived to make Pitt Race a premier motorsports destination. With much thought, Jim and I decided to step away from ownership of the facility. We thank our loyal customers, our dedicated vendors and sponsors, the unwavering supporters, and mostly our dedicated and passionate employees. It’s been a fun journey and ride. The message is a bit cryptic and doesn’t actually say much, other than that ownership of the facility is changing hands. But Grassroots Motorsports , citing unnamed sources, claims the facility will be sold to a “developer,” though the article doesn’t go into any more detail. Hooked on Driving, an organization that hosts track days, said on its Facebook page it will host Pitt Race’s final public event on November 8-9, reiterating that the course has been sold to a developer. Source: Pitt Race on Facebook Users on Reddit and X (formerly Twitter) seem to think the place will be turned into a data center, though I haven’t seen that confirmed anywhere officially. I reached out to the track about this, and a representative told me they didn’t have that info to share at this time, giving me the following response instead: We are focusing on the remaining events for the season and plan to give our customers the level of service and the experience they have enjoyed over the years. Wampum, the town where Pitt Race is located, isn’t currently on a list of planned data center locations for the Pittsburgh area (for now). Whatever the land is used for, it sure sounds like it won’t be for racing. And that’s a damn shame. Rest in peace, Pitt Race. You’ll be sorely missed. Support our mission of championing car culture by becoming an Official Autopian Member . beaverun , pitt race , pittsburgh international race complex , race tracks , RIP Follow us on: Google News MSN News Apple News+ Share on facebook Facebook Share on whatsapp WhatsApp Share on twitter Twitter Share on linkedin LinkedIn Share on reddit Reddit Brian Silvestro Brian Silvestro is The Autopian's news editor. Best known for buying cheap, rusty project cars, he currently drives a 2008 Range Rover with around 218,000 miles. When he’s not writing about the car world, he enjoys participating in fun drives, track days, and endurance racing events. Read All My Posts » Prev Older For A Brief Moment, The Pontiac Grand Prix Was A True ‘Banker’s Hot Rod’ Newer A Faraday Future Prototype Reportedly Exploded At The Company’s Headquarters Next Subscribe Login Notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments Please login to comment 59 Comments Inline Feedbacks View all comments Member RustyJunkyardClassicFanatic 6 months ago Yup! What a shame…an awesome track for…a damn data center? (If that’s true) That just makes it worse 0 Jason Roth 6 months ago I only kind of knew this existed, despite having lived in the region for 30+ years. Finally looked it up on a map, and I’ve biked basically right past it (couple hundred yards, max), but on a side with no signage or access. Anyway, I wonder if I can get up with ere with my dad and his Boxster before it’s too late. He did a training weekend at Watkins Glen a decade or two ago, so… 1 Black Peter 6 months ago What a beautiful facility, and what a shame. 2 Member Vanagan 6 months ago Why can’t they replace the numerous Self-Storage facilities around the country with data centers! Instead of our race tracks. 5 Member WK2JeepHdStreetGlide 6 months ago Reply to Vanagan Because this country is filled with hoarders that need a place to put their shit they’ll never use or look at again 6 Member Fredzy 6 months ago The destruction of my home track (and also one of my favorites in general) was not on my AI Disruption Bingo card. Assuming it does end up becoming a data center. Huge bummer on multiple levels. 1 GhosnInABox 6 months ago If you need a mental image for the “developer”, just picture Christopher Walkin’s character from “Country Bears”. 1 Scott Wangler 6 months ago I really hurts to realize I will never dip down into the corkscrew again. Its really a shame. 4 Member Fredzy 6 months ago Reply to Scott Wangler I’d finally gotten consistent and comfortable sending it through there… I don’t think there is a more satisfying couple of turns to get right anywhere. I couldn’t wait for my next trip out there. A shame indeed. The only positive I could see coming out of this is maybe given the stakes, someone will get a quality scan of the tr