Biz Beat Roundup: More data centers proposed in Stafford - Fredericksburg Free Press ; Facebook X RSS Home News by locality Caroline Fredericksburg King George Spotsylvania Stafford Government Guide to Local Government Health Care Education Public Safety Biz Beat Arts and Entertainment Free Time Local Events Podcasts Obituaries News Tips About Us About Fredericksburg Free Press FAQs Our Funding Donate Public Notices This data center campus is under construction on Old Potomac Church Road just south of Stafford Hospital. It's one of the first data center projects in the region, but many more are in the works. Biz Beat Roundup: More data centers proposed in Stafford by Bill Freehling | Jan 22, 2025 | BizBeat , Business Fifty-one homes sold in the Fredericksburg region in the past week, according to data from the Fredericksburg Area Association of Realtors . Three of them — 65 Louie Lane on the Potomac River in Stafford County, 11403 Bluffs Ridge in western Spotsylvania County, and 185 Mt. Hope Church Road in Stafford — all went for more than $1 million. Check back every week for the list of closed sales from the week prior. Spotsylvania Regional Medical Center is proposing a 13,900-square-foot free-standing emergency room and medical-imaging center along the south side of U.S. 17 in Stafford near Banks Ford Parkway and McWhirt Loop in Celebrate Virginia North. A rezoning and conditional use permit are required for the project. Both Spotsylvania Regional and Mary Washington Healthcare have been investing heavily in medical facilities throughout the region. Numerous data center projects have been proposed in the past several months in Stafford, according to submittals to the county’s Planning and Zoning Department. (Numerous data centers are also in the works and under way in Spotsylvania and Caroline counties , and Fredericksburg is discussing the possibility of a data center campus at Celebrate Virginia South.) These proposed Stafford projects, all of which require rezonings, include: Accokeek Center : An 80-acre property between U.S. 1 and I-95, just south of the Rappahannock Regional Jail and just north of Ramoth Church Road. Three data center buildings totaling 520,000 square feet are proposed. The applicant is Stephen W. DeFalco of Falmouth Tech LLC. GWV Data Center : A 1,042-acre property north of Ramoth Church Road, south of Courthouse Road and west of I-95 near the Courthouse Road interchange off I-95. Approximately 7.9 million square feet of data center buildings are proposed (which would make this project larger than the recently approved Stafford Technology LC data center project along Eskimo Hill Road east of U.S. 1). The applicant is Andrew Garrett of The Garrett Companies . Austin Ridge Logistics Center : A 183-acre property at the end of Cedar Lane, 2,000 feet south of Courthouse Road and west of I-95 near the interchange. About 2.1 million square feet of various industrial uses are proposed, including about 1.6 million square feet of data center buildings. The applicant is Nathaniel Hagedorn of NP Austin Ridge LLC. Enon Road Technology Park : A 162-acre property south of Enon Road near the intersection with Wyatt Lane and just west of I-95. Up to 2 million square feet of data center buildings are proposed. The applicant is Jacob Manevich of GAM Stafford LLC. Cranes Corner Data Center : A 46-acre property just east of U.S. 1 and about 1,400 feet north of the Centreport Parkway intersection. About 900,000 square feet of data center buildings are proposed. The applicant is Jacob Manevich of GAM 403 Mountain LLC. A Checkers restaurant is proposed on the north side of U.S. 17 about 430 feet west of the South Gateway Drive intersection near the I-95 interchange in Stafford. There is also a Checkers at 3901 Plank Road in Spotsylvania. The applicant for the Stafford project (which requires a conditional use permit from the county) is Syed Rizvi of Warrenton Re LLC. Cushman & Wakefield | Thalhimer reports the following recent new lease transactions in the Fredericksburg area: Holly Schwab & Matthew Culwell leased 4,941 square feet of retail space at Spring Knoll, 20 Plantation Drive, in Stafford. MD Tech Solutions LLC leased 3,584 square feet of office space at 10304 Spotsylvania Avenue in Spotsylvania. Aceotech LLC leased 3,241 square feet of office space at 475 Aquia Towne Center Drive in Stafford. Nu’You Beauty Supply leased 2,000 square feet of retail space at Orange Village Shopping Center, 500-595 North Madison Road, in Orange County. Jesus Ramos and Omar AbiFaraj leased 2,800 square feet of retail space at Fredericksburg Business Center, 11047 Pierson Drive, in Spotsylvania. Quick Auto Glass leased 1,500 square feet of industrial space at Fred II Warehouses, 4901-4978 Commerce Drive, in Spotsylvania. Fix2Go leased 1,200 square feet of industrial space at 4937 Commerce Drive in Spotsylvania. Fahrenheit 132 owner Cole Berlin is back on the Fredericksburg Architectural Review Board agenda for Feb. 10. Berlin has been seeking to enclose a second floor of the building at 314 William St. (former Vivify Burger & Lounge space) to facilitate an expansion for his restaurant. The ARB denied the request for a certificate of appropriateness last year, and City Council upheld the decision. “Biz Beat Roundup” runs every Wednesday morning and includes a roundup of business news from around the Fredericksburg region. Send submissions to: bill.freehling@fredericksburgfreepress.com Search for: Biz Beat Sponsored by: Recent posts Rappahannock Area Health District recognizes medical reserve corps during national volunteer week Grafton Village principal named to inaugural Virginia Principals of Distinction class Ralph Bunche Alumni Association requests extension of MOU with King George County Schools, community agencies dominate city budget hearing Caroline County Public Schools hosting Region III job fair on Saturday morning Fredericksburg Free Press Founding Corporate Supporters Share This Print Friendly Gmail Facebook Twitter LinkedIn reddit