Iron Mountain eyes seven-building data center campus outside Austin, Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Iron Mountain eyes seven-building data center campus outside Austin, Texas Company plans first data center in Lone Star State March 18, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Iron Mountain is targeting a new data center development outside Austin, Texas. First reported by BizJournal , the company is targeting a campus outside the city of Hutto in Williamson County. – Google Maps The city of Hutto city council last week saw a presentation from Iron Mountain for its Taylor Meadows data center development as part of a sanitary sewer service request. The project covers about 500 acres off FM3349, on land north of Norman Crossing and south of the Samsung semiconductor plan in Taylor. Full details haven’t been provided, but up to seven buildings are planned and an on-site substation. The first grid-connected buildings could come online around 2030, but the company is also considering natural gas behind-the-meter options to bring capacity online sooner. The site would rely on a closed-loop cooling system. During the city council meeting, the company noted the proposed data centers would use less water than a previously planned residential development proposed on a portion of the site. Iron Mountain has around 415MW of colocation and hyperscale capacity in 21 markets across seven countries and three continents. This would be Iron Mountain’s first data center development in Texas. Across the US the firm has data centers in operation and development across Boston, Massachusetts; Chicago, Illinois; Denver, Colorado; Kansas City, Missouri; Miami, Florida; Edison, New Jersey; Dayton, Ohio; Boyers, Pennsylvania; Phoenix and Scottsdale, Arizona; and Manassas and Richmond, Virginia. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection HP SitePrint for data centers 07 Apr 2026 Chindata and HEC break ground on 7.5MW data center in Hubei Province, China Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 19 Dec 2025 Token Cat and Better Now plan data center in New York Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Austin Behind-the-Meter Hutto Iron Mountain Natural Gas Taylor Taylor Meadows Texas Williamson County Comments