Concerns spark over environmental and economic impact of data centers in Indiana | wthr.com Breaking News More ( ) » Local News Indiana’s growing data center industry sparks concerns over environmental and economic impact According to DataCenterMap.com, Indiana is home to 56 data centers, with 23 of them located in Indianapolis. To stream 13 WTHR on your phone, you need the 13 WTHR app. Download the 13 WTHR app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video INDIANAPOLIS — Whether it’s AI powering the future or uploading photos to social media, “the cloud” makes it possible. But where exactly is the cloud? Increasingly, it’s farmland across the country, now prime real estate for data centers in central Indiana. According to DataCenterMap.com, Indiana is home to 56 data centers, with 23 of them located in Indianapolis. While that number continues to grow, communities are weighing the benefits against potential downsides, as seen recently in both Pittsboro and Franklin Township, two different projects drawing similar concerns. In Franklin Township, a proposed data center in the early stages of rezoning would cover nearly 500 acres of farmland, bordered by South Post Road, East Troy Avenue, South Davis Road and Vandergriff Road. The developer behind this project has chosen to remain anonymous during the rezoning process. Credit: WTHR Data centers under construction. Andrew Filler, a resident of Franklin Township, says he understands that development is inevitable but wishes there was a better option. " Just something that will give back to the community in tax dollars and help improve us," Filler said. During a packed public hearing Wednesday, neighbors expressed concerns not only about environmental changes, but also about whether financial benefits would extend to local communities. District 20 Councilor and Republican caucus minority leader Michael-Paul Hart says he hopes the petitioners of this project do more work in discussing what financial impact this could bring to southeast Indianapolis. "One of my big concerns and a lot of the councilors' concerns is that we see millions of dollars go downtown all the time," Hart said. "What are we going to do for these things out here in the townships? If this thing has a 50-year tax abatement on, that's heartburn for me. So, these are things I'm still looking to find out and learn more about." A different data center, similar concerns in Pittsboro Just days earlier, Pittsboro town councilors unanimously approved a plan to rezone over 600 acres of farmland to make way for a Vantage Data Centers project. The facility will cover 285 acres, with the remaining land slated for future industrial development. Tuesday’s meeting in Pittsboro drew a packed house, but council members declined to take public comment before the vote, leaving some residents frustrated and walking out. “This will ruin this small, wonderful tight-knit community that has managed to stay this way for a very long time,” said Lyndsay Grimes, a Hendricks County resident who previously moved away from a similar development. Credit: WTHR Opponents worry that the Pittsboro project will bring noise pollution, increased traffic, and strain on local water and power resources. Despite the concerns, Councilor Terry Northern remained optimistic. “The worst thing that’ll happen is more traffic during construction, but I think property values will go up,” Northern said at the meeting. Credit: Vantage Data Centers A rendering of a large data center in Pittsboro, Indiana, from Vantage Data Centers. Environmental impact a growing concern While Pittsboro’s Vantage Data Centers project has committed to minimizing water usage by prioritizing recycled or reclaimed water - and aims to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2030 - experts say other projects across the country should aim to follow suit by utilizing more eco-friendly cooling solutions. Lixin Wang, a professor of earth science at IU Indianapolis, warns that data centers can place a heavy burden on natural resources. “Many data centers are already in water-stressed regions, and they use a large amount of water," Wang said. "That’s not sustainable for the system or society as a whole.” Wang adds that while the need for AI and data storage is undeniable, there needs to be a methodical approach to implementing them in communities. “We just need to be mindful of their environmental consequences and do that in the best way we can,” Wang added. What’s next for Franklin Township? The company behind the Franklin Township project remains unnamed as it moves through the rezoning process. Residents have scheduled a neighborhood meeting on April 2 to discuss their concerns after reviewing the information presented at Wednesdays meeting. Another meeting is planned for April 16, where neighbors will meet with the developers and their attorney to address unanswered questions. Meanwhile, the April 10 zoning variance meeting has been continued at the request of the Franklin Township Civic League and is now rescheduled for May 15. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out