Microsoft buys 90 acres to expand San Antonio data center hub San Antonio Express-News Hearst Newspapers Logo Skip to main content Business Microsoft acquires 90 acres to expand its data center hub in San Antonio By Lily O'Neill , Staff Writer Sep 22, 2025 Microsoft Corp.’s Texas Research Park data center is seen in this file 2020 photo. The software corporation plans to build two more on San Antonio’s West Side. San Antonio Express-News file photo Microsoft Corp. is ramping up its investment in San Antonio’s data hub center . The Washington-based technology corporation has acquired 90 acres off the intersection of Wiseman Boulevard and Loop 1604 on the West Side, according to property records. Advertisement Article continues below this ad City permits indicate that Microsoft plans to build two more data center buildings spanning two floors each on the vacant acreage. Each building will be about 195,000 square feet, according to documents filed with the city. RELATED: Denver company planning $277M data center on San Antonio’s far West Side Since building its first data center in the area in 2005, Microsoft has been rapidly expanding its footprint, investing billions into new projects . The software corporation already owns more than 300 acres in Bexar County, where it has built a cluster of data centers on the far West Side . It also owns about 1,112 acres in Medina County, an area that includes Castroville and Hondo, according to the Medina County Appraisal District. West Bexar County has become a hub for data centers due to its access to power and fiber infrastructure and flat topography. Companies like Vantage Data Centers , Valero Energy Corp. and CloudHQ all have staked claims in the area, taking advantage of the rising demand for data centers amid the growth of artificial intelligence and cloud-based technologies. Advertisement Article continues below this ad San Antonio Express News Logo Want more Express-News? Make us a Preferred Source on Google to see more of us when you search. Add Preferred Source RELATED: Microsoft plans another $1.4 billion worth of data centers west of San Antonio CPS Energy has been encouraging companies to build the high-powered facilities in other parts of the metro area to spread out the utility’s power loads and prevent congestion on its distribution system. The city-owned utility expects to spend $1.3 billion on transmission and generation projects over the next five years to keep up with the power needs for the facilities. Sep 22, 2025 Lily O'Neill Staff Writer Lily O'Neill is a business reporter for the Express-News. She can be reached at lily.oneill@express-news.net . She was The Denver Post's food reporter from 2022-2024, covering all things food in the Mile High City, before settling down in Texas. Over the past year, she wrote trending stories for SAEN and freelanced for Texas Monthly, Austin Monthly and San Antonio Magazine, in addition to working as the Associate Editor for TRIBEZA magazine in Austin. Lily previously wrote for BusinessDen, Denver's online local business news publication, and worked as an intern for 5280. She is a Kansas City native and a University of Missouri Journalism School graduate with a minor in Spanish and has previously won an award for business reporting at the Kansas City Star. San Antonio Express News Logo Want more Express-News? Make us a Preferred Source on Google to see more of us when you search. Add Preferred Source MORE NEWS Waymo service still paused after floodwaters wash away robotaxi Waymo’s ride-hailing services remain paused in San Antonio, four days after one of its driverless cars was washed away by floodwaters in the city. San Antonio in the running for new Space Force cyber warfare unit The Air Force says JBSA-Lackland and Fort Meade, Maryland, are potential sites for the new unit. The decision will be made later this year. Frost Bank hit with class-action lawsuits over breach affecting more than 100K The bank points to a vendor breach, while lawsuits allege inadequate security measures and delayed notification to customers. A San Antonio lawyer moved to trademark 777-1111. A rival sued to stop him. Rudy Castillo has filed a trademark application for the phone number, prompting Jonathan Perez to file a federal lawsuit challenging it. One-time intern Mross tapped as president of Zachry Construction Corp. Travis Mross got his start at the San Antonio family business in 2000, working his way up to the executive ranks. MOST POPULAR News Air Force basic training instructor sentenced in sexual misconduct case Staff Sgt. Davonte Hardaway, an instructor at JBSA-Lackland, was charged with engaging in "prohibited activity" with female recruits. He faced jail time. Forecasts Isolated severe storms possible across South Texas. Here’s when. Overall chances of a storm will be low over the next two days, but the storms that do develop could become strong to severe. News Mom says man assaulted her, bit her child in the face in attack at S.A. park Weather After heavy rain, here's how much South Texas lakes have risen Spurs Here's how the San Antonio Spurs' romantic partners are winning off the court News Prosecutor explains why he dropped charges against Rosie Speedlin Gonzalez Spurs When will Wemby bounce back? A neurologist explains sports-related concussions. News Air Force basic training instructor sentenced in sexual misconduct case Staff Sgt. Davonte Hardaway, an instructor at JBSA-Lackland, was charged with engaging in "prohibited activity" with female recruits. He faced jail time. Weather After heavy rain, here's how much South Texas lakes have risen News Prosecutor explains why he dropped charges against Rosie Speedlin Gonzalez Forecasts Isolated severe storms possible across South Texas. Here’s when. Overall chances of a storm will be low over the next two days, but the storms that do develop could become strong to severe. News Mom says man assaulted her, bit her child in the face in attack at S.A. park Spurs Here's how the San Antonio Spurs' romantic partners are winning off the court Spurs When will Wemby bounce back? A neurologist explains sports-related concussions.