150MW data center proposed for Baltimore County, Maryland - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 150MW data center proposed for Baltimore County, Maryland Planned for 42-acre site in Woodlawn area December 10, 2025 By Georgia Butler Have your say A 150MW data center has been proposed for Baltimore County, Maryland. As reported by Fox45 News , applicant Security Land and Development LP is seeking to develop the data center campus on a 42-acre site in the Woodlawn area of the county. Woodlawn sits to the west of Baltimore's metro center. – Google Maps Construction of the data center and development of the site are expected to begin in June or July 2026. In addition to the campus, the applicant will donate five acres to BGE to develop an electrical substation and will purchase the local Rodeway Inn. According to a county spokesperson, a razing permit application was submitted in April and resubmitted in June, but details about the data center development remain sparse, with no development plans submitted. "We are bringing to the community all the information we currently have”, said Delegate Sheila Ruth. “Critical decisions on a project that raises as many concerns as this one cannot be finalized without full transparency from the company and extensive community engagement and public input.” Maryland is one of the US' smaller states, and has a modest data center market at present. Most facilities currently sit around Frederick or Baltimore. Despite this, its proximity to Virginia is bringing more attention to the state. In addition, the state governor signed a bill easing restrictions around data center backup generators last May . Amazon is expanding its data center footprint into Maryland, taking space at the TPG Quantum Frederick Park . The company is also landing its first self-developed subsea cable in the state, which will be the first to land in Maryland. Other customers of the Fredrick park include Aligned and Rowan Digital . More recently, Mag Partners announced it was looking to develop data centers on 235 acres of land in Baltimore in August 2025. The Maryland Piedmont Reliability Project, a 67-mile (107.8km) 500kV transmission line that will run through Baltimore, Carroll, and Frederick Counties to bring power to data center developments, is also currently in the works. The project is receiving significant backlash, with the group "Stop MPRP" claiming it will "destroy 1,200+ acres, cut across 400+ properties, harm 522 acres of cultivated cropland, damage 245+ acres of conserved land, and cross 101 waterways and streams. " According to an SEC filing , Security Land and Development Corp's main business activities include the "acquisition or development of income-producing properties for investment purposes" and "income from leasing activities," though this is dated in 2014. No end user for the data center has been shared. More in Construction & Site Selection HP SitePrint for data centers 18 Feb 2026 Illinois governor Pritzker to call for two-year suspension of data center tax incentives – report Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 16 Dec 2025 Alaska drone program taps Armada Edge computing offering Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Baltimore Baltimore County Maryland Security Land and Development LP Woodlawn Comments