Onsite Energy Plans for New Data Center Projects Reflect Industry's Decarbonization Investment | Data Center Frontier Power Onsite Energy Plans for New Data Center Projects Reflect Industry's Decarbonization Investment Planned projects combining data centers and on-site energy reflect an ongoing trend of data center investment moving to meet global green imperatives for decarbonization and sustainability via use of clean energy technologies. Matt Vincent Aug. 23, 2023 27 min read Fidelis New Energy, LLC Rendering of the proposed Monarch Cloud Campus, which will use hydrogen produced using the proprietary FidelisH2 technologies from Fidelis New Energy, LLC to provide power and cooling for data centers. Announcements this month for projects combining data centers and on-site energy, including one in Virginia with plans for a transition to small modular reactor (SMR) nuclear and hydrogen generation and one in West Virginia featuring hydrogen power derived from natural gas, illustrate an ongoing trend of data center investment moving to meet global green imperatives for decarbonization and sustainability via the use of clean energy technologies. Clean energy investment toward development platforms targeting the hyperscale sector is a trend reported on earlier this year by DCF Editor at Large Rich Miller, who noted in his January story about Houston-based clean energy proponent CleanArc Data Centers that the market is currently at "a moment when data centers and energy companies are forging deeper connections, as both industries wrestle with the growing specter of climate change and cloud computing's appetite for renewable energy to support massive MegaCampuses that can exceed 500 megawatts." DCF also discussed this topic in our 2022 and 2023 trend forecasts , predicting that "the intersection of data center energy will enter a new phase, driven by demand for renewably-powered data centers and the deep pockets of global investors." In 2022, DCF forecast that data and energy would forge deeper connections. That has certainly proven to be true, but this year's forecast narrowed our lens of expectation to anticipate more data center projects that include on-site energy generation to enable expansion in grid-constrained markets. A notable example of this trend is in Ireland, where Microsoft in July received approval to build a massive 170-megawatt gas-fired power plant, in addition to 21 backup diesel generators, to provide power for its Dublin data center campus. The gas plant will be able to fully support the campus in the event of disconnection from the country's crowded national grid, run by EirGrid, who had previously capped power hookups for new data center construction in the Dublin market. (DCF also reported last year that Microsoft data centers will begin sharing energy from their UPS battery storage systems with Ireland’s power grid, as part of a growing movement for data centers to collaborate more closely with the utility industry.) In our annual trend forecast, DCF also predicted that similar on-site strategies could emerge in Northern Virginia’s Loudoun County, where new power hookups from Dominion Energy will be severely limited until 2026 due to constraints in the local high-capacity power transmission network. At a Loudoun Chamber of Commerce event on August 8, as reported by LoudonNow , Virginia Secretary of Commerce and Trade Caren Merrick said the state is meeting regularly with Dominion and other providers on the topic of small modular reactors, investigating a concept for smaller-scale nuclear reactors capable of generating up to 300MW, produced in assembly line fashion, producing less power than today’s large-scale nuclear energy facilities, but being built more quickly and cheaply, and requiring much less land. “Many, many companies have been reaching out to us here in Virginia because of our nuclear energy, because companies want to know that they're going to have the energy that they need to grow,” said Merrick. “And it's not only data centers—it’s agriculture, it’s manufacturing. We need to have energy more than we do.” SMR Nuclear to Hydrogen On-Site Power Generation Plan Proceeds In Surry County, Virginia GEP-IP3 An illustration of Green Energy Partners' and IP3's jointly planned data center and energy campus near the Surry Nuclear Power Station in Southeastern Virginia. Confirming DCF's prediction of more on-site generation by data centers in the region, Green Energy Partners LLC of Virginia (GEP) this month announced that it has taken another step toward cementing plans to construct a data center and energy campus near the regional Surry Nuclear Power Plant, by taking up a partnership with Virginia-based international nuclear power developer IP3 Corporation . The companies' joint establishment of the Surry Green Energy Center, LLC (SGEC) to pursue clean, green energy projects is also the main vehicle for the partners to implement commercial plans targeting baseload and industrial energy needs in Virginia. Initially announced in April, the project has its sights on construction of up to 30 data centers, ultimately supported by on-site power generation from SMR and hydrogen systems. IP3 is a Virginia-based developer and integrator of nuclear energy programs in coordination with its fully owned subsidiary, Allied Nuclear Partners (ANP). The company further bills itself as delivering a “buy-side” approach for private enterprises and host nations to pursue planning, development, financing, and operations of projects deploying clean energy technologies. A second subsidiary company, IP3 Security, provides physical and cyber security expertise. In April, DCF reported that GEP, the developer of the Stonewall Energy Park located roughly 180 mi. to the north in Loudoun County, was under contract to purchase 641 acres adjacent to the existing 1.6 GW Surry Nuclear Power Station to create a new data center and renewable energy production center. GEP's legacy as a Virginia property and project development company passionate about generating sustainable carbon-free energy began in 1975 with its development of 20 acres in Fairfax County that became the Spring Park Technology Center. Successive acquisitions and developments have included over 11,000 acres in Virginia, creating more than 15,000 residential and industrial lots, along with thousands of jobs. The company's sustainability journey led to its securing the 641 acres in Surry County and launching plans to create the fully integrated SGEC industrial park, one of the nation's first such green energy centers, to be built near the existing nuclear power plant's two 800MW reactors with on-site SMRs to follow. The ultimate plan calls for the huge data center campus to also feature hydrogen power generation. Bill Puckett, GEP's vice-president of strategic development, noted in DCF's April reporting by David Chernicoff that the company plans to build 20 to 30 individual data centers on 3- to 5-acre plots, with construction set to begin within 18 months, presuming that all permitting can be completed in that timeframe. The initial plan calls for running the data centers on existing power sources, then, using the revenue from the data centers, to build out to a hydrogen production facility and a fleet of 4-6 SMRs powering the data centers, generating the hydrogen fuel, and providing backup power for Virginia’s grid, whereby the SGEC will expand Virginia’s data center capacity and offset escalating power demands. By its strategic location in Surry County, the joint IP3-GEP project aims to supply digital infrastructure and future power supply services to government agencies and military bases across the Washington, DC area, to the environs of Norfolk, Virginia. The SGEC project may also create more than 3,000 jobs in the Surry area. “As we look to build on our dominance in energy-intensive industries like data centers and advanced computing and increase our leadership in emerging fields like advanc