Atlas Development files for 12-building data center campus in Temple, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Atlas Development files for 12-building data center campus in Temple, Georgia Atlas back with another project outside Atlanta January 27, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A large new data center campus could be coming to Georgia. A Development of Regional Impact application has been filed with the Georgia Department of Community Affairs for a data center campus in the city of Temple. – Atlas Development Atlas Development has filed an application for Project Bus, a large 350-acre campus. The development could see up to 12 buildings and two substations developed. Further details about the company's plans for the site haven't been shared. The campus could be completed by 2036. According to the application, the value of the project at full build-out could total $11 billion. Temple is a city in Carroll and Haralson counties, some 40 miles west of downtown Atlanta. Atlas describes itself as a full-service data center developer specializing in power-ready, future-proof sites tailored for hyperscale and enterprise clients. The company claims to have 18 sites under control and a development pipeline exceeding 7.5GW. The company has filed for two separate developments in Rome, Floyd County, and another 2.2 million sq ft (204,387 sqm), six-building campus in Bartow County, some 40 miles (64km) northwest of Atlanta. The company is also planning a 428-acre technology park outside Villa Rica , some 30 miles (48km) west of Atlanta. The company sold Project Sail , a 900MW planned campus in Georgia’s Coweta County, to real estate giant Prologis last year. Atlanta is becoming a major data center hub, with the likes of Digital Realty, CoreSite, Switch, Google, Microsoft, Flexential, H5, and QTS developing or operating data centers in the Atlanta area – largely around Lithia Springs or Douglasville. The Peach State looks set to grow quickly in the coming years. Traditionally a Tier 2 market, the region has quickly become a major hotspot for data center development. DRI applications for more than a dozen campuses, totaling tens of millions of square feet across dozens of buildings, have been filed over the last couple of years. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection HP SitePrint for data centers 20 Nov 2025 500MW data center campus in the works outside Leipzig, Germany Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 19 Jan 2026 Two data center projects proposed near Phoenix, Arizona Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Atlanta Atlas Development LLC Georgia Project Bus Temple Comments