North Texas city earmarked for nearly $1B Google data center investment Oops, something went wrong Skip to navigation Skip to main content Skip to right column North Texas city earmarked for nearly $1B Google data center investment Kelsey Thompson December 11, 2025 2 min read GOOG A general view of the Google Midlothian Data Center where Texas Gov. Greg Abbott and Alphabet and Google CEO Sundar Pichai are scheduled to speak on November 14, 2025 in Midlothian, Texas. Google announced today that it plans to invest $40 billion dollars in three new Texas data centers through 2027. (Ron Jenkins/Getty Images) Google's data center footprint in the Lone Star State is growing yet again after the tech giant registered its latest nearly $1 billion project in North Texas. Google registered the $880 million project under the code name Sharka on Monday, December 8, according to project filings with the Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation. The tech company is poised to kick off construction on the 288,000-square-foot project in late January 2026 ahead of an estimated completion data in late February 2027. TDLR cost and timeline estimates are subject to change. The project description calls for a new one-story data center at 3441 Railport Parkway, Midlothian, TX 76065. It's the newest property to join Google's growing presence in the North Texas city located roughly 25 miles southwest of Dallas. Back in June 2018, Texas A&M University's Texas Real Estate Research Center reported on "Sharka's" $500 million project investment in Midlothian to construct a data center, later confirmed to be an LLC operating under Google. That commitment to Texas development has only multiplied in the years since, with this latest project marking the fifth data center building to join the Midlothian site, per TDLR records. Last month, Google CEO Sundar Pichai revealed Google would be investing $40 billion in Texas via three new data centers planned in West Texas and the Panhandle, making the announcement alongside Gov. Greg Abbott in Midlothian. The Lone Star State is currently home to approximately 423 data centers across 26 markets statewide, according to market research analyst Data Center Map. "They say that everything is bigger in Texas - and that certainly applies to the golden opportunity with AI," Pichai said, as reported by the Texas Tribune. This article originally published at North Texas city earmarked for nearly $1B Google data center investment . Terms and Privacy Policy CA Privacy Notice Your Privacy Choices More Info