New York-based Mag Partners may build data centers on 235-acre site in Baltimore - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel New York-based Mag Partners may build data centers on 235-acre site in Baltimore Developer intends to add colocation facilities August 07, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say New York-based real estate developer Mag Partners may build data centers on a 235-acre development in Baltimore. Baltimore is the most populous city in the state of Maryland. Visualization of the development – Mag Partners Mag Partners manages Baltimore Peninsula, a mixed-used development on a waterfront peninsula in South Baltimore. So far, 1.1 million sq ft (100,000 sqm) of apartments, offices, and retail out of an intended 14 million sq ft (1,300,000 sqm) has been constructed. CEO MaryAnne Gilmartin told Bisnow that she was in discussions to build colocation data centers on one portion of the site. Details of the scope of the facility and which company might operate it weren't shared. No deal has yet been finalized. The CEO emphasized that this would not prevent the construction of other kinds of property. “So over the short term, what we’re focused on is the abundance of flexibility that we have so we can meet the market where it is," she said. “We’re getting a lot of data center interest. That’s because we have a lot of land, we’ve got access to power.” Gilmartin said that the utility company, Baltimore Gas and Electric (BGE), would be able to power the facility. As reported by The Baltimore Banner , BGE is preparing to spend more than $130m on a substation and related infrastructure for the proposed development. Maryland is not a major data center market, but most of its facilities are clustered around Baltimore. The state governor signed a bill easing restrictions around data center backup generators last May . More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 12 Nov 2025 Seagate launches 3.2 petabyte storage solutions targeting data center and Edge environments Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 09 Apr 2026 OpenAI drops out of multi-billion dollar UK investment plan, says Stargate UK is on hold Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive Tags Baltimore Baltimore Gas and Electric Mag Partners Mary Anna Gilmartin Maryland Comments