The largest data center in the U.S. is coming to this rural Utah county Skip to content by: MJ Jewkes Posted: Aug 6, 2025 / 09:50 AM MDT Updated: Aug 6, 2025 / 10:03 AM MDT SHARE FILLMORE, Utah ( ABC4 ) — In early June, Millard County approved a rezone that will bring the world’s largest data center to central Utah. On June 3, 2025, the Millard County Commission unanimously voted in favor of a rezone, appropriating over 1,100 acres of agricultural land to heavy industrial. The center would be house high-density data banks which can be leased to major tech corporations for a number of uses including artificial intelligence. Millard County Commissioners deliberate over a rezone on Aug. 5, 2025. (Courtesy//MJ Jewkes) The Millard County Courthouse. (Courtesy//MJ Jewkes) The nation’s largest data center could be coming to this remote part of Millard County. (Courtesy//MJ Jewkes) The applicant is a management company called Fibernet MercuryDelta, LLC. The company was only created in 2022, but last month reported almost $15.2 million in annual sales. Rezoning the property paved the way for Fibernet MercuryDelta to construct what they’re calling the largest data center in the U.S. The property in question is found near the intersection of 4500 South and Highway 50 in Delta. One nearby resident of the potential data center, Kyle Ashby, voiced concerns over water usage. “What’s troubling is the actual amount of water hasn’t been clearly defined or publicly released.” Jarvis Jones, another nearby resident, feels the project could set a dangerous precedent. “This zoning could create a domino effect, inviting further industrial development,” Jones said during the June commission meeting. Millard County commissioners pointed to economic benefits in favor of the data center, including Commissioner Bill Wright who highlighted the “significant benefits a large company could bring to the county.” Wright says benefits could include job creation and increased tax revenue. The project is not the only one of its kind coming to Millard County. On Aug. 5, 2025, the Millard County Commission approved the rezone that will bring another major data center to the county. Fibernet MercuryDelta now only needs a conditional use permit before beginning construction. This is a developing story. ABC4 will update this post as more information becomes available. Latest headlines: Crouse scores twice as Mammoth take 2-1 series lead Local businesses speak on economic impact of Mammoth playoffs Missing man found dead in Farmington Canyon, officials confirm ‘I could hear him giggling’: 100-year-old Veteran returns to sky in World War 2 plane Rich County speaks on search for Garden City teenager missing for nearly a year Add as preferred source on Google ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks Trending Stories SLC Marathon to cause widespread road closures Rich Co. continues search for teen missing for months Man arrested for sexually assaulting restaurant server DWR warns of increase in bear encounters this summer 55-year-old man missing out of Duchesne County Crocodile from Utah’s Hogle Zoo receives CT scan Religious bishop arrested for rape minor relative Missing man found dead in Farmington Canyon PICTURES: Five semi-trucks involved in crash in Tooele Indiana OnlyFans creator charged with child sex crimes