Property developer Drox looking to build 129-acre data center near Greensboro, North Carolina - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Property developer Drox looking to build 129-acre data center near Greensboro, North Carolina Will be considered by planning body on April 9 March 25, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say Property developer Drox Group LLC is looking to build a 129-acre data center near Greensboro, North Carolina. Drox submitted a request to rezone a land parcel located in the city of Rural Hall at 8084 Glade St from residential to services in order to allow for the construction of four two-story data center buildings totalling 1.3 million sq ft (120,000 sqm) of space. – Google Maps The Planning Board of Forsyth County is set to review the proposal on April 9, with final approval to be left up to the Board of County Commissioners at a later date. Opposition to the proposed data center has been mounting, and a petition against its construction has gathered more than 2,100 signatures at the time of writing. Noise and light pollution, the loss of agricultural land, the impact on property values, and potentially increased utility costs were cited as reasons for opposition. Comments on a post by the Town of Rural Hall about a public hearing regarding the data center on April 1 are also largely negative. The Drox Group is a Charlotte-based property developer. It is unclear whether the company has previous experience with building data centers. Rural Hall is a city located within Forsyth County, itself northwest of Greensboro. Most of North Carolina’s data centers are clustered around the cities of Charlotte and Raleigh. More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 17 Mar 2026 164 acre data center could come to Sioux Falls, South Dakota Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 28 Oct 2025 Groups sue to stall data center project in Doña Ana County, New Mexico Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive Tags 8084 Glade St Drox Group LLC Forsyth County North Carolina Rural Hall Comments