Western Hospitality Partners eyes 320-acre data center campus outside Peoria, Illinois - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Western Hospitality Partners eyes 320-acre data center campus outside Peoria, Illinois One of two Illinois projects linked to WHP January 26, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Another large data center campus is planned for development in Illinois. 25News reports Pekin is to have a town hall meeting in March about a planned data center development. – City of Pekin Pekin is a city in Tazewell County, located just south of Peoria. News of a potential development surfaced last year when Pekin city council said it would acquire 1,000 acres of land, known as Lutticken Farm, located between IL Hwy 98 and Sheridan Road. At the time, officials said the city would be selling around 320 acres of the site to Western Hospitality Partners (WHP), which plans to develop a data center campus on the site. Full details of the planned development haven’t been shared. The city has only said that a developer wants to purchase 321 acres for a technology park. The project is still reportedly in the planning phase. Mayor Mary Burress said Pekin currently holds “only a land option agreement, which would be exercised solely if the project proves feasible and aligns with the community’s long-term interests.” An opposition group, Tazewell County Data Center Opposition, has more than 2,000 members on Facebook. The group is set to bring a petition against the development to city officials during a meeting this week. Few details about the company are available, but Western Hospitality Partners has previously been linked to several data center projects across Kentucky , Indiana , and Pennsylvania . It has faced delays and pushback against several proposed developments. The company is reportedly tied to a planned development in Braidwood , an Illinois city around 53 miles (85 km) southwest of Chicago and 18 miles (29 km) south of Joliet. Development on that project – which could have eight buildings – has been paused due to transmission issues. Outside Louisville, Kentucky, WHP withdrew plans for a $6 billion project in Oldham County in July 2025 after pushback from residents. The project would have totaled some eight buildings across 267 acres. In Pennsylvania, the company is targeting half a dozen buildings on an 186-acre site in Archbald, Lackawanna County. In Indiana, it has been named in two projects. One, located in New Carlisle, could total up to 14 buildings across more than 1,000 acres, with potential to reach 750MW. The St. Joseph’s County council, however, voted against the rezoning request in December. The company has a second planned Indiana project, in nearby South Bend , that could total up to ten buildings across 300 acres. Western Hospitality Partners has also been linked to a proposed project in Childersburg, Alabama. That $6 billion project could total 500MW across 486 acres in the Childersburg Industrial Park, according to Inside Climate News . Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 27 Nov 2025 Aker Nscale buy land in Fauske, Norway, for data center Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 24 Nov 2025 Centra breaks ground on second Reno data center Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Illinois Pekin Peoria Tazewell County Western Hospitality Partners Comments