Despite calls to postpone decision, Harwood greenlights $3 billion AI center - InForum | Fargo, Moorhead and West Fargo news, weather and sports Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Saturday, April 25 Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Fargo Despite calls to postpone decision, Harwood greenlights $3 billion AI center The Harwood City Council did not take public comment on Applied Digital vote during Wednesday’s meeting. Meadow Martin holds up a sign outside of a Harwood, North Dakota, City Council meeting held about an artificial intelligence data center on Wednesday, Sept. 10, 2025. Alyssa Goelzer / The Forum By April Baumgarten and Isak Dinesen September 10, 2025 at 9:06 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? HARWOOD, N.D. — Harwood will let a $3 billion artificial intelligence data center begin construction near the city, despite protests and pleas to postpone the decision. Without discussion, the Harwood City Council unanimously approved on Wednesday, Sept. 10, a request to rezone land where Applied Digital plans to build a 280-megawatt AI data center from agriculture to light industrial. The final approval means the Texas-based company can break ground on the 160-acre project that will sit on 925 acres of land between Fargo and Harwood east of Interstate 29. ADVERTISEMENT Applied Digital announced the project in mid-August. It plans to break ground this month and open partially by the end of 2026. The facility will be fully operational in early 2027, the company said. The center should create 200 full-time jobs, the company said. The Harwood, North Dakota, City Council votes on final approval of an artificial intelligence data center on Wednesday, Sept. 10, 2025, at City Hall. Alyssa Goelzer / The Forum While some residents support the project, others, like Harwood resident Michael Swartz, criticized the city for approving the project too quickly with little public comment. Large businesses target small towns like Harwood because they know they’ll find little resistance and can pull city leaders by “the leash,” he said. “They’re acting like good little lap dogs right now,” Swartz said of the City Council. The City Council gave preliminary approval to the rezoning and a building permit for the center on Sept. 2. Residents were allowed to speak at that meeting, as well as at a City Planning and Zoning meeting the same day. The two Sept. 2 meetings, which were at the City Community Center, spurred hours of questions, comments and shouting from dozens of attendees. Two people were removed after Mayor Blake Hankey warned attendees not to shout from the crowd. Others left the meetings voluntarily. ADVERTISEMENT Harwood resident Mike Swartz argues with fellow resident Mark Kerkvliet following a Harwood City Council meeting relating to an artificial intelligence data center on Wednesday, Sept. 10, 2025. Alyssa Goelzer / The Forum The City Council called a special meeting for Wednesday to vote a second time on the rezoning. Rezoning requests require two votes. Attendees questioned why the city gave little notice for the Wednesday meeting, with some saying they only found out about the meeting on Wednesday. City officials scheduled and noticed the Wednesday meeting last week, Hankey told The Forum after the meeting. He acknowledged that media outlets and residents didn’t realize it was happening until as early as Tuesday. Applied Digital asked the council to expedite approval of the center, and Wednesday worked for other council members, he said. “I asked for the council’s input if they wanted to push this meeting off any longer, and it was a unanimous vote that no one did and wanted to take care of it today,” he said. Hankey appeared for Wednesday’s via videoconference from Portugal, where he said he was on vacation with his wife for their 10-year anniversary. The date of the meeting didn’t matter because council members weren’t changing their minds from the Sept. 2 meeting, he said. People pack inside and outside of Harwood, North Dakota, City Hall as the City Council votes on final approval of an artificial intelligence data center on Wednesday, Sept. 10, 2025. Alyssa Goelzer / The Forum “Our decision isn’t going to change,” he said. “Whether we had it today, next week, next month, it’s not going to change.” ADVERTISEMENT City Hall’s capacity of 40 people was met before the meeting started, and a Harwood firefighter turned away some who tried to enter the building. Some people stood outside with signs pressed up against the windows for council members to see. One sign said, “Why no public comments? What’s the rush?” When asked why the meeting couldn’t be moved to the larger Community Center, City Auditor Chayla Hansen said the Community Center was hosting another event and was unavailable on Wednesday. Crowd members in the small City Hall asked the council on Wednesday to let them speak, ask questions and move the meeting to another date. The next regular Harwood Council meeting is scheduled for Oct. 6. Council members said they didn’t want to postpone the meeting or open a public comment session regarding the project. Signs are held up outside of the Harwood, North Dakota, City Hall as Harwood City Council meets about an artificial intelligence data center on Wednesday, Sept. 10, 2025. Alyssa Goelzer / The Forum One meeting attendee inside City Hall yelled “cowards” as the council adjourned the meeting without taking public comment. People were allowed to listen to the meeting via videoconference. The city disabled comments and muted attendees on the video call, though a person opened a drawing application and wrote “Enable chat, cowards.” ADVERTISEMENT City leaders knew about the project in early July but did not discuss it publicly until after Applied Digital announced the center last month, Swartz said. “I just think we are getting worked over here,” Swartz said. “The lack of transparency is something that needs to be corrected in this town.” Applied Digital had a town hall meeting in late August where residents could ask questions, in addition to the public hearings the city held last week, Hankey said. “I do think we have given our constituents a chance to speak,” he said. “I’ll also couple that by saying the majority of people who are speaking out against this are not from Harwood." Grace Brennan of Fargo speaks up at the end of a Harwood, North Dakota, City Council meeting held about an artificial intelligence data center on Wednesday, Sept. 10, 2025. Alyssa Goelzer / The Forum Grace Brennan, of Fargo, told attendees in Wednesday’s meeting that residents can petition to recall elected officials if they don’t like a City Council decision. The petition requires 25% of Harwood voters who cast ballots in the last city election, she said. Brennan said they wanted to point out that residents have recourse for the government. “I think it’s important for people to not feel powerless,” she said. ADVERTISEMENT Duncan McAlister, of West Fargo, asked Harwood residents after the meeting to sign a recall petition against Hankey. McAlister said he needs 36 signatures to put the recall to a vote. McAlister claimed Hankey called the special meeting to prevent people from fighting back. He said he doesn’t want an AI data center in Cass County or North Dakota. “We think this is vital because of how irresponsible he has been to his own community, to his own constituency,” he said. Top recent stories A town in shock. 'I cannot imagine killing your own child.' Apr 17 Fargo mayoral candidates try to set themselves apart in first debate 3d ago 