Racine County, Wisconsin approves Microsoft's 1,000 acre expansion of Mount Pleasant campus - DCD Home News Construction & Site Selection Racine County, Wisconsin approves Microsoft's 1,000 acre expansion of Mount Pleasant campus Microsoft will be one of the largest landowners in the county December 01, 2023 By Georgia Butler Have your say Racine County has approved Microsoft's application to increase its Mount Pleasant, Wisconsin, data center campus by 1,030 acres. Regional economic development officials on November 10 announced Microsoft's plans to purchase the remainder of the parcel where it was building data centers, as well as parcels to the west and north of the site previously controlled by Foxconn. – Google Maps Combined with the existing 315 acres Microsoft purchased, the company will now own around two square miles of the business park in Wisconsin. The $100m land sale was approved unanimously by the board. Microsoft has said that the development will look like a distribution warehouse, and it will invest billions more in new development. County executive Jonathan Delagrave called the board's vote "a historical day in Racine County." "This opportunity provides one of the most successful, environmentally conscious, great employers for its employees to be right here in Racine County." Microsoft has until 2028 to build a campus valued at $1.4 billion, reports the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel . If they fail to meet this deadline, the company will be liable to pay money to the county. Similarly, four buildings must be built or under construction by 2044. Construction is already underway on the first data center which is located at County KR and 90th Street and the contractor, Walsh Construction, has permits to begin the second building. These two buildings alone will cost Microsoft around $1 billion. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: The New Physics of US Data Center Infrastructure 06 Mar 2026 AWS likely behind plans for $750m data center in Clinton, Mississippi Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in North America North America data center report 14 Apr 2026 Flexential to expand footprint with new data center in Atlanta, Georgia Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Mount Pleasant Microsoft Racine County Wisconsin Comments