Bloomfield site eyed as location for large data center Ct Insider Logo Hearst Newspapers Logo Skip to main content Business New York developer proposes massive data center in Bloomfield By Luther Turmelle , Staff Writer July 12, 2025 The site of the vacant land on Griffin Road North in Bloomfield that's being eyed for a new data center. Google Maps /Google Maps Stock photo of a room in a Data Centre. (Photo by Dafydd Owen/Construction Photography/Avalon/Getty Images) Construction Photography/Avalon/Getty Images Officials in Bloomfield say a New York-based developer is proposing to build a two-story, 1 million square-foot data center on land off of Griffin Road North. Atlas Capital Group made a presentation of what town officials say was a "conceptual proposal" to Bloomfield's Planning and Zoning Commission in June for the data center. The project would be built on a vacant piece of land at 132 Griffin Road North, according to a press release put out by the town. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The facility would include over 900,000 square feet of space for data processing and a 127,000-square-foot substation.The proposed data center would create 40 jobs. Jonathan Colman, Bloomfield's director of land use, said the proposal is still in its early conceptual stages. "One of the questions we want to answer is what the future reuse for this building will be when the technology becomes obsolete," Colman said. More For You USS Idaho submarine, made by CT's Electric Boat, is ready for action The new USS Idaho, a Virginia-class submarine, will be stationed in Connecticut and captained by a state resident. Wren Kitchens closes all U.S. locations, including 2 in Connecticut Wren Kitchens has closed all its U.S. showrooms, including in Newington and Milford, after entering the U.S. market in 2020. Tous Les Jours opens in New Britain with French-Asian fusion pastries, drinks This is the second Tous Les Jours French-Asian chain bakery to open in Connecticut. The first is located in New Haven. Foodshare sells Bloomfield facility as Wallingford expansion project advances "These are difficult times for us because we're seeing less money coming in and less food coming in," Connecticut Foodshare's Jason Jakubowski. Bridgeport poster restoration business goes viral, draws global clients One item Lee Milazzo showed off at the shop was a "While You Were Out" note that was posted to Joey Ramone's door in New York with David Bowie's phone number at the top. CT Insider Logo Take control of your search results Make CT Insider a preferred source on Google to see more of our journalism when you search. Add Preferred Source Company officials did not respond this week to a request for comment about the plans for a data center. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The nearest homes are located to the northeast of the property that Atlas Capital is looking to develop, he said. There is also a middle school located near the area. Colman said the next meeting between Atlas Capital and town officials will be held later this month or early in August. The property is a former tobacco field that developers had once proposed for a shopping center that was to have been anchored by a supermarket. Although Atlas met with Bloomfield officials, the property owner is River Bend Development CT, a Bloomfield-based limited liability company, according to Colman. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Most of the properties that are part of Atlas Capital's real estate portfolio are either in New York City or California, according to the company's web site. The majority of those properties are either residential properties or mixed use complexes. Efforts to develop more data centers in Connecticut have been met with mixed success. Discussions of developing data centers along the Interstate 91 corridor in Wallingford first surfaced in 2021 with a proposal for a two-story 157,000 square-foot facility on a 57-acre tract off of Williams Road in an area behind the Hilton Garden Inn in that community. The company behind that proposal, Gotspace Data LLC also building a 313,672 square foot data center on a 205-acre site on North Farms Road bordering Meriden, Tankwood Road and Route 15. Neither project came to fruition, in part because of community opposition. In Groton, that opposition resulted in a one-year moratorium on data center projects being heard by officials in that town. But in December 2024, Wallingford's Planning & Zoning Commission voted to allow for data centers in that town's Watershed Interchange District along Interstate 91 . Advertisement Article continues below this ad Data center projects have also been proposed for Groton and Waterford, with the later being proposed for land adjacent to the Millstone Nuclear Power plant. Fred Carstensen, a professor at the University of Connecticut School of Business and the director of the state Center for Economic Analysis, said one reason none of these projects have moved to the construction phase is because t he state lacks a comprehensive policy governing their siting and development . "Connecticut is falling behind in the IT economy because of this," Carstensen said. That is concerning, he added, because of projections for flat employment growth or possibly a loss of jobs in Connecticut over the next several years. "We need more of them," Carstensen said of data centers. "New York and Massachusetts are racing ahead in this sector." Advertisement Article continues below this ad Data centers are a vital component of the digital economy because of the growth of artificial intelligence and cloud computing. And Connecticut Gov. Ned Lamont has voiced support for having more data centers in the state. But Carstensen acknowledged that there is some opposition to data centers because they consume large amounts of electricity and require large amounts of water to cool computer infrastructure inside them. Colman said one thing Bloomifield officials want to get more information on is "what the future is for these types of buildings when the technology inside them become obsolete." Advertisement Article continues below this ad July 12, 2025 Luther Turmelle Reporter Luther Turmelle is a business reporter with Hearst Connecticut Media Group. Turmelle has covered the towns of Cheshire and Wallingford and he specializes in the utility and energy beats. A graduate of Boston University, Turmelle has held multiple leadership roles in the Society of Professional Journalists, including two terms on the organization's national Board of Directors. Most Popular 1 . UConn men's basketball nabs Belgian big man out of transfer portal 2 . How UConn women's basketball roster looks for next season 3 . Old Saybrook restaurant owners 'poured their hearts' into eatery ravaged by fire 4 . Wren Kitchens closes all U.S. locations, including 2 in Connecticut 5 . Emails show 'a ton of push back' before McMahon CT school visit was canceled Find the Best Near You Best Of Cast your vote for Connecticut's heavy hitters Back the businesses that pack the biggest punch in food, fun, shopping and beauty. Voting is open now through April 26. Best Of The best home remodelers in CT Planning a kitchen or bath remodel? Choose from the best home remodelers in CT and find a team that matches your style, not just your square footage. Best Of The best preschools near Fairfield For little learners with big curiosity. Best Of These local hair salons are a cut above the rest Whether it's a bouncy blow-out, a vibrant color transformation, or a revitalizing hair treatment, they've got you covered! Best Of CT’s best garden centers to visit this winter If plants are your thing and winter is your season, this list is your happy place. Best Of These kitchen remodelers create the ideal space for hosting Get tips from top CT experts on crafting a kitchen that wows your guests. Best Of A Guide to Active Adult Communities in CT CT retirement communities are lovely places to call hom