Tulsa County Commissioners approve data center plans near Owasso News Local News Actions Facebook Tweet Email Tulsa County Commissioners approve data center plans near Owasso Prev Next By: Clifton Haskin Posted and last updated TULSA, Okla. — Tulsa County Commissioners approved plans for a data center to be built near 76th Street North and Sheridan on July 16. The board voted 3-0. We spoke with people nearby ahead of the vote to gather their views. Some are concerned about the potential impact of the 506-acre data center on their health and the environment. Lisa Morgan lives in the Westgate neighborhood, located near 86th Street North and Whirlpool Drive. WATCH: Tulsa County residents concerned about plans for data center: Tulsa County residents concerned about plans for data center Soon her neighborhood could be next to a data center called Project Clydesdale, according to Dwayne Wilkerson. He's the Planning Services Director with INCOG . "We thought this was going to be a rural and beautiful community and not have to worry about all these data centers and industrial centers coming in," said Morgan. KJRH Owasso City Manager Chris Garrett wrote a letter of support. He said it'll create about 300 high-paying technology jobs. However, Morgan told 2 News there are too many worries. "Lose electricity or power here, what if we run out of water? Some people were concerned that they already have low water pressure," said Morgan. Nationwide there are concerns about the impact data centers have on electricity use and water demand. An MIT News study found, "beyond electricity demands, a great deal of water is needed to cool the hardware used for training, deploying, and fine-tuning generative AI models, which can strain municipal water supplies and disrupt local ecosystems." This is far from the first discussion about data centers in Oklahoma. In 2024, 2 News anchor Naomi Keitt and executive reporter Justin Ayer reported data centers could be located in east Tulsa and Muskogee. "I think more of the neighborhoods that will be impacted should be informed as well," said Morgan. Morgan is also worried about the children who play in these streets, the environment, and how it could impact traffic. "We don't know enough about it, I think more people need to be informed." 2 News brought these concerns to Wilkerson. "The idea is for the structure to be in the middle of the sight," said Wilkerson. In the middle -- about 300 feet from Morgan's neighborhood. Wilkerson said it'll be far enough to have little environmental impact. The vote for zoning approval is scheduled for July 16 at 10:00 a.m. at Tulsa County headquarters. "I think we all need to be informed," said Morgan. More from 2 News Oklahoma OWASSO HELPS: OPD collects donations for Enid Brodie Myers Muskogee breaks ground on $27.8M public safety Complex Clifton Haskin LIVE BLOG: Green Country helping Enid with storm recovery KJRH Digital Doubts persist after DEQ meeting over proposed Inola aluminum smelter Samson Tamijani Stay in touch with us anytime, anywhere -- Download our free app for Apple , Android and Kindle devices. Sign up for daily newsletters emailed to you Like us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Watch LIVE 24/7 on YouTube SHARE YOUR STORIES WITH US