Multi-gigawatt data center campus planned in East Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Multi-gigawatt data center campus planned in East Texas Former paper mill site in Lufkin targeted by Amp Energy February 05, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A 2.1GW data center campus is being planned in East Texas. As reported by the Lufkin Daily News , Amp Z is set to acquire land outside Lufkin in Angelina County, some 120 miles (193km) north of Houston. – Google Maps Citing county property records, the Lufkin Daily reports Verdant Industries, LLC, and Verdant Industries Realty, LLC, granted Amp Z Champion Data Center Holdings LLC the right to purchase approximately 1,041 acres across multiple abstracts and surveys at the former Southland Paper Mill. Amp Z’s website suggests the site, listed as Project LufKin, has a 55MW grid connection currently via an on-site substation. The company claims the site will have 175MW of grid-connected capacity in 2026, rising to 1.1GW by 2028. Concurrently, the company aims to include 1GW of self-generation capacity by 2029. The site is reportedly expandable to 4,000 acres. Full details and project timelines haven’t been shared. The Southland Paper Mill, later known as Abitibi Bowater Inc., started operations in the late 1930s and closed in 2007. After a potential sale in 2009 with another buyer fell through in 2009, Verdant Industries acquired the site at auction in 2010 for $11m. “It is truly a once-in-a-lifetime project for Angelina County,” Lufkin Mayor Mark Hicks told the Lufkin Daily News. “It’s in the billions of dollars in terms of investment. It’s just a real opportunity for us.” Formed last year, Amp Z is part of the wider Amp Energy group founded by David Rogers. Founded in 2009, Amp Energy has reportedly invested more than $6 billion in to 14GW of clean energy infrastructure, much of which has been sold. It has previously secured investment from Carlyle. AmpZ aims to develop gigawatt-scale data center campuses. On its site, it says it can offer turnkey and multi-tenant facilities with grid and on-site power. The firm says it is currently developing three sites with a combined power ramp of 3.8GW and “advancing diligence” on four additional sites representing another 4.7GW. Subscribe to our daily newsletters Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter series. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 17 Nov 2025 OpCore plans €4bn data center at former EDF coal power plant outside Paris, France Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 09 Jan 2026 Soluna partners with Siemens on 2MW pilot to test power management challenges for behind-the-meter data centers Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Amp Energy Amp Z Angelina County Lufkin Texas Comments