Project Overview | Homer City Redevelopment top of page Project overview Honoring Our Past and Reimagining Tomorrow Homer City Redevelopment is committed to ensuring a future for the Homer City community that prioritizes opportunities for growth and progress.​​​ Homer City Generating Station began operations in 1969, employing thousands with jobs and millions of customers with energy. Located only 50 miles east of Pittsburgh, the facility was the largest coal-burning power plant in Pennsylvania and was directly connected to both the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM) and New York Independent System Operator (NYISO) transmission systems. After powering the region for nearly 55 years, the power plant was permanently decommissioned on July 1, 2023. The Homer City Generating Station has been revitalized through reinvestment and the opening of Homer City Redevelopment (HCR). Working with committed and quality partners, HCR is committed to turning the old plant into something positively transformative. On April 2, 2025, HCR and Kiewit announced the future of the former Homer City Generating Station. Homer City will be transformed from a decommissioned coal power plant into a more than 3,200-acre campus that will include natural gas-powered data-centers designed to meet the growing artificial intelligence (AI) and high-performance computing (HPC) needs of the innovative technology companies shaping America’s digital future. GE Vernova will provide seven high efficiency 7HA.02 hydrogen-enabled, gas-fired turbines, with the first deliveries expected to begin in 2026. The Homer City Energy Campus will be built by Kiewit Power Constructors Co., one of the leading engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) contractors in the country. Powering the Future, From Vision to Reality Click the pins to preview enlarged renderings Building on Homer City’s place in the proud history of Pennsylvania energy generation, the new Homer City Energy Campus will become the largest natural gas-powered plant in the country and will have capacity to serve multiple large data center customers and supply power to thousands of homes on the local grid. Key attributes and benefits of the project are expected to include: ​ Delivery of up to 4.4 gigawatts (GW) of power to support AI-driven hyperscale data centers, while reducing CO2 emissions by 60–65% per megawatt hour compared to the former coal plant. ​ ​ Creation of more than 10,000 direct on-site construction-related jobs* along with approximately 1,000 total direct and indirect permanent high-paying positions** in technology, operations and energy infrastructure. ​ ​ ​ Establishing an Innovative Data Center Campus and Accelerating Pennsylvania’s Digital Future Data centers are critical to supporting America’s economic and energy growth by powering businesses and enabling continued leadership in innovation. Data center deployment, partly driven by the need to power new AI applications, is a significant factor in the current surge of electricity demand growth throughout the U.S. as the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) estimates that data centers could grow to consume up to 9% of U.S. electricity generation annually by 2030, up from 4% in 2023 .*** Accelerating the deployment of electricity generation will be critical to support these growing power demands reliably while also limiting CO2 emissions. HCR is helping to address this need through its plans to deliver up to 4.4 GW of power to support AI-driven hyperscale data centers and local homes while reducing CO2 emissions by 60-65% per MWh compared to the decommissioned coal-burning Homer City Generating Station. Securing America’s AI and Energy Dominance The project will help address the nation’s growing energy shortage – a crisis that will only intensify as demand surges to support the global race for dominance in AI and HPC technology. According to PJM – the largest grid operator in the country – the Mid-Atlantic region in particular faces a looming energy capacity deficiency, with more than one fifth of the PJM system in the area expected to retire or reach the end of its useful life by the end of the decade.**** The Homer City Energy Campus will ultimately play a vital role in securing America’s AI and energy capacity dominance. Footnotes * Anticipated total number of direct on-site jobs related to the construction of both the natural gas-powered plant and the data center campus over an expected five-year period. ** Anticipated total number of direct and indirect permanent positions to support the operations of both the natural gas-powered plant and all aspects of the data center campus once running at full capacity following the completion of the construction. *** EPRI, Powering Intelligence: Analyzing Artificial Intelligence and Data Center Energy Consumption, 2024. **** Resource Adequacy Comments at 2 (“PJM currently projects a potential shortfall in generation supply by the end of this decade.”). bottom of page