Planners oppose data center campus in Varina, Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Planners oppose data center campus in Varina, Virginia Wagner Urban Logistics LLC fails to win over county planning commission September 14, 2025 By Georgia Butler Have your say A data center campus proposed in Varina, Virginia, has been recommended for denial by the Henrico Planning Commission. In a September 11 meeting, the Planning Commission heard from applicant Wagner Urban Logistics LLC and 14 locals in opposition about the project. – Google Maps The data center was proposed for land along Darbytown Road near Laburnum Avenue in Varina. The data center would be directly across the road from the New Market Village neighbourhood, and half a mile from George F. Baker Elementary School. In early August, county planning department staff recommended approval for the project, before it was sent to the Planning Commission for consideration. Wagner's application was for a conditional use permit for the 195-acre parcel. A representative for the company notes that there were significant industrial developments around the property, and that electrical infrastructure and a high voltage power line were located nearby. The applicant noted that the zoning ordinance outlines several requirements for data centers, including closure or screening for equipment, access to water and sewers, and generation operations requirements, which it claims to have met across the board. The company aimed to build eight data center buildings - all with a 500-foot buffer from lot lines or residential areas. Additionally, the company said it would plant trees along Darbytown Road to shield the data center from view. An estimated 400 full-time jobs would be created by the project. Despite Wagner's attempts to appeal to the planning commission, 14 residents spoke against the project in person, citing concerns about impacts on the children at the nearby school. One resident appealed to the commission to "consider children over profit." Other concerns were raised about grid stability, environmental impact, and health impact on locals. Ultimately, the Henrico Planning Commission recommended denying the application. It will now be considered by the Board of Supervisors. In May last year, the Board of Supervisors approved the rezoning of 622 acres of land in Henrico County for data centers and manufacturing facilities. The county is home to the White Oak Technology Park, where Meta and QTS operate facilities. Iron Mountain is aiming to develop a 200MW data center campus at the park. Henrico County covers land surrounding Richmond in central Virginia. While outside of the typical data center hotspot of Northern Virginia, Richmond has a significant data center market. DataCenterMap lists at least 71 facilities in and around the city. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 12 Jan 2026 Oil & gas investors plan 1,500-acre data center and energy campus outside San Antonio, Texas Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 27 Mar 2026 Pennsylvania House advances bill aimed at shielding ratepayers from rising costs associated with data center growth Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Darbytown Road Henrico County Richmond Varina Virginia Wagner Urban Logistics LLC Comments