Land clearing underway for new Massena data center substation Advertisement Advertisement Return to Homepage Top Stories: DOJ revives firing squads Golden orb ocean discovery Netanyahu cancer diagnosis $400K Maduro capture bet Israel-Lebanon ceasefire Oklahoma tornado ICE and Border Patrol funding Medical marijuana reclassification Navy secretary ousted Judge blocks Va. voting maps Jan. 12—CANTON — Petawatt Holdings is clearing land on County Route 42 for the construction of a new data center substation, but town of Massena officials must determine if the site is zoned for that use. The St. Lawrence County Planning Board discussed the situation during their meeting Thursday night. Planning Director Jason C. Pfotenhauer said the 14-acre site is zoned as industrial and currently has two containers that are used for some cryptocurrency mining. However, the town doesn't recognize cryptocurrency as one of the permitted uses in an industrial zone. Advertisement Advertisement He said the area for the new substation was approximately 250 feet by 250 feet and "looks like basically a bunch of wires and metal and conducting equipment for the substation." "Right now on the site the applicant is doing some brush clearing, scrub clearing, and they are proposing the development of a new power substation. It's a phased project, and the future intent of the site development is for a data center," Pfotenhauer said. Architect Brooks Washburn said Petawatt Holdings, the owner of the property, was undertaking site preparation so they could "offer for lease or for sale an already developed decent property." "They are not going to be the ones building and running the data center. What they're doing is simply doing the site prep so it's ready to pass on to a developer," he said. Advertisement Advertisement Pfotenhauer said the county Planning Board had to decide if it was a permitted use. "We're looking at strictly the use of the site for the substation. This is where it gets a little bit more interesting here with this project because looking through the permitted uses in the industrial zone, you won't see utilities per se or substations," he said. He said that, among the permitted uses was "manufacturing, assembling, converting, altering, finishing, cleaning, recycling, or any other processing and incidental storage of products and materials, including but not limited to greenhouses for the growing or the cultivation of delicate or out-of-season plants." Also permitted are wholesaling, storage and warehousing; junkyards and dismantlers; research laboratories; truck and rail terminals and port facilities, including docking, fueling, loading and unloading; signs; waste storage and/or treatment facilities; and adult uses. Advertisement Advertisement "That's the list of permitted uses in the zone. So, we're not sure where this one falls. Is this a use that is a permitted use in the industrial zoning district? Think it should be. It's associated with industrial-type use. But, the lot is not a permitted use in the industrial zone," Pfotenhauer said. He said town of Massena Code Enforcement Officer Patrick M. O'Brien had submitted the site plan to the county for their review and recommendation. "It was submitted to them as a site plan, so they are submitting it to us as a site plan. So, where does that leave us for a recommendation? What staff is recommending is that the project be referred back to the town of Massena Zoning Board of Appeals for an interpretation. Essentially, they have the ability to interpret code and to determine how this use should be defined," he said. He said if the Zoning Board of Appeals decides the substation fell under one of the permitted uses, "then it's straightforward. It goes to the Planning Board. They review it as a site plan and that's the end of the review process." Advertisement Advertisement However, if it's determined that it's not a permitted use, the company would need to seek a use variance. "That would be an action by the Zoning Board of Appeals in the town of Massena," Pfotenhauer said. "I think I'm more comfortable with the local Zoning Board of Appeals making that interpretation because that's one of their charges, to interpret what the code says." If the company sought a use variance, he said the request would come back to the St. Lawrence County Planning Board to determine if it met the four legal tests required for approval. For now, Pfotenhauer said they recommended approval with four conditions. Among them, they would refer the project to the town of Massena Zoning Board of Appeals to determine how the use was defined. Advertisement Advertisement "If the ZBA determines this is a permitted use, this site plan review will be returned to the local Planning Board for further review. If it is not a permitted use, this will need to be resubmitted as a use variance," he said. The other conditions include ensuring the substation was properly screened from adjacent properties and County Route 42; obtaining a curb cut permit from the county Highway Department for access off County Route 42 if they had not already done so; and ensuring the substation met the 50-foot side setback requirement and, if not, the applicant should obtain an area variance. After some discussion, board members also added a non-binding recommendation, but not a requirement — if the Zoning Board of Appeals decided it was a permitted use, that the town add support services as a permitted use in their code. The town's Planning Board is scheduled to meet Thursday and will address the county's conditions for approval and recommendation. View comments About Our Ads Recommended articles Sean McVay comes off as 'muted,' 'mad' after Rams' surprise pick of Alabama QB Ty Simpson The Rams delivered the shock of the draft by selecting Simpson at No. 13. Yahoo Sports Newly surfaced photos reportedly show Mike Vrabel, Dianna Russini at NYC bar in 2020, Mississippi casino in 2024 Russini resigned from her post at The Athletic on April 14, and Vrabel is skipping Day 3 of the NFL Draft to seek counseling. Yahoo Sports New data shows China came into the Iran war with over 3x the strategic oil reserves of the US New data from the US government released this week shows just how aggressively China added to its oil reserves ahead of the war in Iran. Yahoo Finance Trump's U.N. Ambassador Mike Waltz says bombing every bridge and power plant in Iran wouldn't be a war crime U.N. Ambassador Mike Waltz defended President Trump's threat to destroy every power plant and bridge in Iran, telling ABC's "This Week" on Sunday that such strikes would not be a war crime. Yahoo News Manny Pacquiao buys shuttered Floyd Mayweather gym, will use it as base of operations for upcoming rematch From Mayweather Boxing + Fitness to Pacquiao Prime Boxing. Uncrowned Mysterious golden orb discovered on the ocean floor near Alaska is identified over 2 years later "Isn't the deep sea so delightfully strange?" one scientist said when it was discovered in 2023. Yahoo News Ric Flair vents about WWE's 'lack of respect' after alleged WrestleMania snub: 'Are you kidding me?' The 77-year-old pro wrestling legend is irate after what he perceived to be less-than-welcoming treatment in Las Vegas. Uncrowned Urijah Faber knows he'll be shorter, smaller and older than Arman Tsarukyan at RAF 8 — but so what? Former MMA champ Urijah Faber turns 47 next month, but that's no reason not to wrestle top UFC contender Arman Tsarukyan, he says. If anything, it's all the more reason to test himself now, while he still can. Uncrowned Kentucky governor appears to criticize retirement package given to outgoing AD Mitch Barnhart Barnhart, who is retiring this summer, is set to make nearly $1 million a year in a new role with the university. Yahoo Sports Knicks lose, Mets blow 4-run lead and Jets make much-criticized NFL Draft selection in wild 4 minutes for New York sports Thursday was a big night for New York sports. It didn't go well for ev