Soluna breaks ground on 50MW cryptomine data center expansion in Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Soluna breaks ground on 50MW cryptomine data center expansion in Texas Dorothy 2 to feature some AI compute September 03, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Soluna has broken ground on a 50MW expansion of its cryptomine data center site in Texas. Soluna breaks ground on Dorothy 2 – Soluna The company last week announced the groundbreaking of its Dorothy 2 project in Texas. The ceremony was held on Wednesday, August 28, 2024. The energization of Project Dorothy 2 is expected in Q1 2025. “We are thrilled to break ground on Project Dorothy 2, a project that builds on the success of Project Dorothy 1 and embodies our commitment to innovation, sustainability, and the future of digital infrastructure,” said John Belizaire, CEO of Soluna Holdings. “This facility represents a new era of renewable computing where technology and sustainability can thrive together. We are excited to see this vision come to life.” The company broke ground on Dorothy 1 in 2021. The 50MW site was built out and energized in May 2023. The company said Dorothy 2 will double the site’s capacity. Most of that will be dedicated to Bitcoin mining, with a small amount of capacity dedicated to AI computing . The company traditionally names its data centers after female scientists. The Dorothy name is derived from Dorothy Vaughan, an African American mathematician who worked for NASA. The company also operates the 166MW Project Kati sites in Texas and the 25MW Project Sophie site in Kentucky. Previously, the company owned another facility in Kentucky and one in Washington but exited both in 2023 and 2022 respectively. Genesis' Texas site – Genesis Digital Assets In other recent crypto news : – Genesis Digital Assets Limited last week announced that its Rowdy Data Center in Vernon, Texas, is operational. Currently running at 60MW, the company said the former Oklaunion Power Station site could reach up to 400MW. – Enerhash has launched its first flare gas utilization pods at the Sloan Petroleum Inc. oil extraction site in West Texas. The deployment includes a 1.2 MW Waukesha gas engine. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 28 Oct 2025 AtlasEdge secures €253m green financing for data center expansion in Lisbon, Portugal Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 09 Mar 2026 Flexential seeking $1.4bn in ABS, backed by 28 data center sites Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags flare gas mitigation gas flare Enerhash Cryptomine Texas cryptocurrencies Dorothy 2 Genesis Digital Assets Soluna Comments