Meta's 1,500-acre data center marches forward in Lebanon Skip to content by: Matt Christy Posted: Aug 20, 2025 / 03:00 PM EDT Updated: Aug 21, 2025 / 04:48 PM EDT SHARE LEBANON, Ind. — Meta’s plans to build a 1,500-acre data center in Lebanon’s LEAP Research and Innovation District continue to move forward after being given the thumbs up by the planning commission . Referred to as Project Domino, Meta’s massive data center would be located north and south of State Road 32 between County Roads 250 West and 400 West. The campus would contain 15 total buildings, according to plans submitted to the planning commission. These include 12 data center buildings, one network building, one logistics warehouse building and one administrative building. Project Domino maps submitted to the City of Lebanon. Project Domino maps submitted to the City of Lebanon. Meta Platforms Inc., which owns Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp, has committed an initial $800 million investment as part of the first phase of the multi-phase project. In total, the investment by Meta could grow to more than $4 billion over the six phases. Last fall , the Lebanon City Council approved a 10-year, 50% real property tax abatement and a 35-year, 100% personal property tax abatement to Meta to help lure the tech giant to the LEAP District. To offset these abatements, META will reportedly pay a yearly $1.5 million community impact payment. Boone County citizens have previously expressed concern about the amount of water the LEAP District will consume. Data centers are notorious for consuming water and electricity at high rates. In Wyoming, an AI data center is planned that will use more electricity than every home in the state. Lebanon previously announced a deal with Citizens Energy Group to pump 25 million gallons of water per day to the LEAP District. How much water the data center will use, however, won’t be available to the public as plans submitted to the city note that “all utility infrastructure on the customer-side of the meter will be considered private.” Meta joins Eli Lilly as the only companies so far announced as part of the 9,000-acre LEAP District in Lebanon. Both Meta and Eli Lilly plan their campuses to be operational in 2027. Add as preferred source on Google Suggest a Correction Close Modal Suggest a Correction Your name (required) Your email (required) Report a typo or grammatical error (required) Submit Correction Δ ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews Most Popular IN Lt. Governor bashes high school band performance Spring storm triggers tornado warning, power outages 19 arrested in Johnson County child solicitation … CJ Allen first of Colts day 2 draft picks Divers rescue man at Eagle Creek Reservoir Indiana OnlyFans creator charged with child exploitation Indiana woman’s search for her look-alike goes viral BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks Latest News 1 dead after car crashes into east side building FOX59/CBS4’s Indianapolis Weekend Guide (April 25–27) Little 500 in Bloomington getting fans revved up … Motorcyclist killed in 2-vehicle crash in Dearborn … Marijuana advocacy groups meet with state officials Boutique, ‘Taylored’ hotel slated for Upland View All News