Proposed data center in Genesee County could grow NEWS Proposed data center in Genesee County could grow after approvals rescinded Steve Howe Rochester Democrat and Chronicle Sept. 20, 2025, 8:52 a.m. ET The proposal to construct a data center in Genesee County will head back to the drawing board after the company behind the proposal said it won’t move ahead with the project as planned. Instead, STREAM US Data Centers, LLC, the applicant behind Project Double Reed, wants to increase the size of the project. The previously approved project called for a complex totaling 900,000 square feet of buildings on 59 acres at the Science, Technology and Advanced Manufacturing Park mega site in Alabama, New York. Minutes from the Sept. 4 Genesee County Economic Development Center board meeting state a letter from STREAM U.S. Data Centers was received by the board indicating they did want to move ahead with the previous plan. With the approved plan moot, the board voted to rescind the State Environmental Quality Review approvals and incentives approved in March. In a release on Sept. 18, GCEDC said the data center company had “identified an opportunity to secure additional capacity and increase the scale of their project.” The release indicated the project would expand the company’s investment and “bring additional jobs and economic benefits to the community.” A lawsuit filed on July 1 in State Supreme Court by the Tonawanda Seneca Nation and Sierra Club had challenged the legality of the environmental reviews. "We asked the court to strike down GCEDC's SEQR approvals, so for GCEDC to void the approvals voluntarily is a huge win," said Chief Roger Hill in a statement. “A massive data center at STAMP would harm our people and our way of life by creating constant jet-engine-like noise, damaging our waters, and raising electricity prices for our citizens and local residents.” What is STAMP? STAMP is a 1,250-acre shovel-ready megasite connected to green energy sources and located partway between Buffalo and Rochester. There are 500 buildable acres available and no corporate income tax for manufacturing or on personal property, manufacturing equipment or inventory. Those green manufacturing goals have yet to develop into an operational tenant, though Edwards Vacuum broke ground on a new $209 million facility in 2024, promising 343 careers. Embattled green hydrogen producer Plug Power previously broke ground on a $290 million facility but the project has been suspended and its future remains up in the air . What is a data center? A data center is a facility that houses server farmers — servers grouped in large quantities for functionality and accessibility — including systems for cooling, ventilation and fire suppression. These facilities date back to the earliest days of computing, but large scale facilities didn’t come onto the scene until Google built its 1.3 million-square-foot facility in 2006. The facility employs more than 200 people. — Steve Howe reports on weather, climate and the Great Lakes for the Democrat and Chronicle. An RIT graduate, he has covered myriad topics over the years, including public safety, local government, national politics and economic development in New York and Utah. Featured Weekly Ad