$10bn data center project recieves approval in Lacy Lakeview, Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel $10bn data center project recieves approval in Lacy Lakeview, Texas Faces backlash from locals December 10, 2025 By Georgia Butler Have your say A large-scale data center project in Lacy Lakeview near Waco, Texas, has received approval from city council members. The campus in question is being proposed by InfraKey Capital, and seeks to develop up to six data centers with 1GW of capacity in total. – InfraKey DC According to the company's project site, it is currently in the "planning" stage, and is expected to take some four to five years to complete. It is the only project currently listed by the company. The campus would sit on 520 acres of farmland, just west of Elm Mott, and has an estimated value of up to $10 billion. In a meeting on December 9, the city council approved a non-binding agreement to continue negotiations with the company for the project, with just one member voting against it. Despite the local taxes this would bring to the area, local residents are uncertain about the data center. Lauren Hill said: "AI data investors are not interested in this town because they want to live here or they want their kids to go to these schools. They're interested in using this town as a resource, and they want us to say yes to this deal very quickly," as reported by 25abc . City Mayor Charles Wilson, however, said that the funds from the project could be used to improve the city's infrastructure. Texas is a major data center hotspot in the US. While Waco is not known for its data center footprint, losing out to Dallas-Fort Worth, Houston, Austin, and San Antonio, it is seeing some traction. CyrusOne recently filed to expand its campus located in Whitney, between Dallas-Fort Worth and Waco, while Meta and Rowan are also developing data centers in Temple, a city located south of Waco. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 01 Dec 2025 Equinix gets green light for data center campus at former paint factory in Slough, UK Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 29 Jan 2026 DOE seeks US states to build nuclear innovation campuses, eyes data center co-location Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags InfraKey Capital Lacy Lakeview McLennan County Texas Waco Comments