Meta Temple Data Center - JE Dunn Construction Skip to content Meta Temple Data Center Highlights Galleries Project Highlights Beginning in April 2022, JE Dunn began building Meta’s Temple Data Center. This project is a 386-acre greenfield development of a three-building campus encompassing over 750,000 square feet of data center and admin space totaling 152MWs with approximately 25 miles of UG conduits and 750 prefabricated Multi Trade Racks (MTRs). In addition to being the General Contractor, JE Dunn is self-performing the largest self-perform package in Meta program history and JE Dunn history. These scopes include survey and layout, concrete including all structural concrete, equipment pads, site paving, precast supply and erection, carpentry-rough and finish, doors, frames, and hardware installation, Multi-Trade Rack (MTR) fabrication and installation, Hot Aisle Containment (HAC) installation, and temporary low voltage services (access control, wi-fi, temporary controls and monitoring for equipment storage.) JE Dunn also provided all crane services and 70% of the rigging on the campus for more than 75 major 100,000+ lb. equipment, cartage services, and setting of owner furnished equipment and contractor furnished equipment. Throughout construction, the number of skilled tradespeople onsite will peak at 1,200 workers. Once operational, the Temple campus will be part of Meta’s next-generation data centers. Built with efficiency, flexibility, and sustainability in mind, the design requires a smaller footprint while providing similar compute capacity as compared to previous designs, and will feature dry-cooling technology that minimizes water usage, making it the most efficient cooling tech for the region. The site will be supported by 100% renewable energy and is slated for LEED Gold certification by the U.S. Green Building Council. The Temple Data Center will be Meta’s 21st data center development globally and 17th in North America. Meta Owner/Client Burns & McDonnell Architect Temple, Texas Location In Progress Status 386 Acres 3 Buildings 750,000 Square Feet of Data Center and Admin Space Gallery 2026 Meta Temple Data Center 2019 Stream Data Center DFW VII 2019 LightEdge Data Center 2023 Confidential Client Data Center Project Related Projects View More Projects View More Projects Search ... Results See all results Mission Critical Austin September 13, 2024 Meta Temple Data Center Search ... Search Results See all results Subscribe Now Fill out the form to receive The Look Ahead, JE Dunn’s quarterly economic report. Learn More Learn More skip to jedunn.com Local Market Overviews Atlanta Nashville Austin North Dakota Charlotte Oklahoma Dallas Omaha Denver Phoenix Houston Portland Kansas City Savannah Minneapolis Tampa No data was found No data was found