FERC approves transmission agreement for planned 1GW Tract data center in Morris, Illinois - DCD Home News The Mission Critical Power Channel FERC approves transmission agreement for planned 1GW Tract data center in Morris, Illinois TSA establishes framework to ensure that large load data centers cover the costs for the transmission upgrades needed to support the new data center April 20, 2026 By Zachary Skidmore Have your say The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has approved a Transmission Security Agreement (TSA) between Illinois utility Commonwealth Edison and data center operator Tract to supply up to 1GW of power for a planned Tract data center in Morris, Illinois. – FERC According to the companies, the capacity will be made available on an accelerated timeline, while also establishing a framework to ensure that large-load data centers cover the costs of the transmission upgrades needed to support the new data center. The TSA includes several provisions to ensure this, including committed revenue contributions, minimum usage commitments, and shortfall payments for underperformance. The companies have said that these provisions are designed to “enable local energy companies to deliver the infrastructure needed to power innovation and economic growth while continuing to support reliability for all customers and insulating smaller customers from the costs associated with serving new large loads.” The new TSA is tied to a Tract development located at the Morris Technology Park in Morris, Illinois. Tract announced the acquisition of a 343-acre land parcel on the plot in January , located off I-80 and Highway 6 in Morris. The site can reportedly support up to 1GW at full build-out across ~2.9 million sq ft (269,418 sqm) of data center capacity. Initial energization is targeted for June 2028, and a full 1GW load ramp is expected to be achieved by 2032. “At ComEd, we are focused on meeting the needs of all customers, and that means ensuring that our grid can power data center developments that are bringing economic growth to northern Illinois, while also continuing to deliver reliable, affordable power to existing residents and businesses,” said ComEd president and CEO Gil Quiniones. “FERC’s recent approval of Transmission Security Agreements highlights the value of partnering with customers like Tract, who share our commitment to protecting ComEd customers from cost-shifting, while supporting responsible growth across northern Illinois.” Colorado-based Tract was founded by former Cologix CEO Grant van Rooyen and describes itself as a company that acquires and develops ‘master-planned’ data center parks. The company aims to get sites zoned, powered, and shovel-ready for other companies to develop data centers on. After launching in Nevada in 2023, Tract announced plans for large-scale campuses across Texas ( x3 ), Virginia ( x3 ), Arizona , Minnesota ( x3 ), Iowa , and Utah . On its website, the company also lists planned developments in Illinois and has been pursuing a project in North Carolina . The company said it now has more than 25GW of planned capacity and more than 25,000 acres of land under control across the country, including campuses exceeding 1,000 acres and 1GW in each of Arizona, Iowa, Nevada, Texas, Utah, and Virginia. More in Grid Level Evolving with AI Sponsored Power is now the growth constraint: What data center executives must rethink in 2026 Episode Tech showcase: Data center battery design evolution More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 20 Feb 2026 Vertical Bridge secures $1.94bn for tower financing Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags ComEd Commonwealth Edison FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Illinois Morris Morris Technology Park TSA Tract Transmission Security Agreement Comments