Mercer County residents raise alarms over data center Open in Our App Get the best experience and stay connected to your community with our Spectrum News app. Learn More Open in Spectrum News App Continue in Browser LOUISVILLE GAS PRICES Stay updated on the best prices in town WEATHER ALERT View full list of weather alerts Caitlyn Cooper, co-owner of Desmar Stables in Mercer County. (Spectrum News 1/Sabriel Metcalf) Mercer County residents raise alarms over planned data center BY Sabriel Metcalf Kentucky PUBLISHED 5:00 PM ET Feb. 23, 2026 PUBLISHED 5:00 PM EST Feb. 23, 2026 SHARE MERCER COUNTY, Ky. — For 11 years, Desmar Stables in Mercer County has hosted visitors and professionals on its 100-acre farm and show horse stable. What You Need To Know Mercer County residents have launched a community group and petition pushing back on a proposed 555-acre data center They said they worry about noise, water use, health effects and the loss of farmland should the project move forward The project could bring tens of millions of dollars in new tax revenue for the district each year, according to Burgin Independent Schools “I have probably well over 200 animals on this farm; over 100 horses," said Caitlyn Cooper, co-owner. "I can tell you every single one of [their] names standing right here in front." She said the quietness and ambiance of the land she enjoys daily could be impacted by a 555-acre data center development first posted on LinkedIn six months ago. The listing is right across the road from her farm. “When it is wild and crazy out here, my horses are the first to know about it," Cooper said. "It's a living hell for me because it is so noisy, so loud." "I've had mares and babies run through fences, and it's just not safe to have a data center right across the street that's going to produce that much noise day in and day out." Resident Diane Floyd's petition on Change.org to stop the construction has gained more than 2,000 signatures. She's also part of "We are Mercer County," a new community engagement group formed to stop the Handy Road development. Diane Floyd, Mercer County resident and founder of "We are Mercer County," a community group opposing a planned 555-acre data center development. (Spectrum News 1/Sabriel Metcalf) “When I saw the newspaper article in the Harrodsburg Herald, that was basically all you could find about it online was, 'Hey, all of a sudden we're hiring a data center,'" Floyd said. At a recent Mercer County Planning and Zoning Commission meeting, more than 50 people, including Cooper and Floyd, spoke up about the risks of data centers to farmland, tax changes, water usage and health. “This causes life issues, difficulty, concentration and fragmented sleep," said Rick Angel, longtime physician and area resident. "Basically, if we're two miles away from this, it can disrupt their sleep, even if it complies." “The biggest impact and the most surprising thing to me was how many people in our community care and how many people showed up to help support the cause,” Floyd said. The commission offered another perspective on how data centers use outside consultants to deal with traffic, water systems and other environmental effects. Cooper said if the development proceeds, she'll consider moving her horses out of the county. “Mainly, it's due to the safety of our horses,” she said. In a Feb. 14 statement, Burgin Independent Schools Superintendent Chris LeMonds wrote, "If developed as projected, this facility could generate an estimated $25 to $30 million annually in new tax revenue for our district. This means meaningful financial relief for families and property owners without sacrificing investment in education.” Mercer County’s joint Planning and Zoning Commission has not shared an official proposal for the data center. The commission will meet again March 25 for further discussion. Real estate firm JLL has not responded to Spectrum News 1's request for comment about the data center listing. Related Stories Hawesville smelter to become AI data center; community split on economic impact