Opposition calls to relocate $1.2bn University of Michigan data centers - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Opposition calls to relocate $1.2bn University of Michigan data centers Would house supercomputers used by university and Los Alamos National Laboratory August 20, 2025 By Georgia Butler Have your say Two data centers planned by the University of Michigan (U-M) have been asked to relocate following a meeting by local officials. The data centers are part of a $1.2bn project, and are currently planned for 124 acres purchased by U-M off Textile Road in Ypsilanti Township in June 2024. The disputed over site at Textile Road – Google Maps The data centers would be used for high-performance computing (HPC) and AI research, aiming to "strengthen the university’s research capabilities in science, energy, and national security and create new jobs in southeast Michigan." They would house two computing centers - one for Los Alamos National Laboratory scientists, and the other for academic purposes for U-M faculty and students. Construction is currently slated to begin in 2026. The project has, however, faced significant opposition. Around 80 residents turned up to protest the project at a Ypsilanti Township board of trustees meeting in June. Ypsilanti's board met again on August 19 and has now asked U-M to look into locating the data centers at the old General Motors Hydramatic property instead, which is currently leased by the American Center for Mobility. In the packet from the meeting, letters from township representatives wrote of concerns that "despite recent numerous requests by the full-time elected officials for additional, and detailed, information regarding this issue, we have to date been unable to get more than a cursory overview," and raised concerns about the environment and health impacts on locals. Another letter revealed that the township plans to hire an environmental attorney - Grant Trigger - to work with their legal counsel on getting the data center relocated. A third letter requested that the data centers only be allowed in locations zoned "Industrial and Commercial Revitalization." WEMU89.1 reports that U-M's vice president of government relations, Chris Kolb , said the university previously negotiated use of the GM site for an 18-month period, but decided it wouldn’t work. However, per the township's request, the university has said it would re-engage with ACM and let the township know the result. More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 25 Feb 2026 Vantage and Altarea plan 400MW data center in Bordeaux, France Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in HPC & Quantum 16 Feb 2026 NSF to transition management of Wyoming supercomputing center to third party 27 Nov 2025 UK gov't turns to cloud providers for £250m AI compute capacity procurement 14 Apr 2026 Nvidia launches open source Ising AI models to support quantum chip development Tags Los Alamos National Laboratory Michigan Textile Road University of Michigan Washtenaw County Ypsilanti Township Comments