Botetourt County WebGIS opens in a new window Discover free public data, tools, and resources in the Botetourt County Open Data Portal Technical Difficulties? Try clearing browser cache (Ctrl + F5) Send Email to WebGIS Support. WebGIS Disclaimer By using this site, you understand: The information contained on this page is NOT to be construed or used as a "legal description". Map information is believed to be accurate but accuracy is not guaranteed. Any errors or omissions should be reported to the Botetourt County Geographic Information Systems Office. In no event will Botetourt County be liable for any damages, including loss of data, lost profits, business interruption, loss of business information or other pecuniary loss that might arise from the use of this map or the information it contains. Accept Decline Botetourt County, Virginia WebGIS About Layers Legend More Botetourt County WebGIS DISCLAIMER: The information contained on this page is NOT to be construed or used as a "legal description". Map information is believed to be accurate but accuracy is not guaranteed. Any errors or omissions should be reported to the Botetourt County Geographic Information Systems Office. In no event will Botetourt County be liable for any damages, including loss of data, lost profits, business interruption, loss of business information or other pecuniary loss that might arise from the use of this map or the information it contains. Please direct any questions or comments to: WebGIS Support Related Links: Botetourt County, VA Website Botetourt County, Open Data Portal Botetourt County Census Dashboard Botetourt County Resource Guide Developed by: Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. Site Last Updated Loading... Print Searches Select Search: Form Search Quick Search Advanced Query... Help for Search Tools Select Tool Bookmarks Coordinates Measure Sketch & Select Draw Arrow Text: x Clear All Export Export Save previous Clear previous Results Highlight Clear Highlight Export... Kiosk WebGIS Support Share Help Botetourt County Website New Resident-Information Developed by: Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. WebGIS.net