Serverfarm targets 135-acre data center campus in Arkansas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Serverfarm targets 135-acre data center campus in Arkansas Company planning six-building campus in the Natural State November 27, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Data center developer Serverfarm is targeting a new campus in Arkansas. Local press, including the Graphic and the Arkansas Democrat Gazette , report the company has filed to develop a large campus in Clarksville, Johnson County. – Google Maps Serverfarm is reportedly looking to develop an $8 billion campus on 135 acres north of Interstate 40, near to the Johnson Regional Medical Center. The Clarksville planning and zoning commission met to discuss the campus site plan review last week. The Graphic noted the commission approved the first of three planned phases of development. Serverfarm is reportedly planning six 360,000 sq ft buildings on the site and is working with Vaughn Property Group on the project. Rep. Aaron Pilkington, R-Knoxville has confirmed that Serverfarm is set to develop a multi-building campus on the site, acquired earlier this year via its SF ARK1 LLC affiliate. The end customer of the site hasn’t been named, but Pilkington said the site will utilize a closed-loop water cooling system. The company didn’t reply to the Gazette’s request for comment. Serverfarm does list an open role for a project manager for a “ground-up data center development project” in Clarksville. Serverfarm, founded in 2009 by real estate development firm Red Sea Group, was acquired by Manulife in 2023. The company operates 10 data centers across North America, Europe, and Israel, totaling more than 1.5 million gross sq ft (139,400 sqm) of data center space and 625MW of IT capacity. On its website, Serverfarm lists facilities in operation in Amsterdam, Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, London, Los Angeles, Moses Lake, Tel Aviv, and Toronto. Arkansas does not have a notable data center market, with DataCenterMap listing only six facilities in the Natural State: four around Little Rock, one in Jonesboro, and one around West Memphis – an upcoming Google facility. The state, however, recently introduced new tax breaks for data centers. Colo operator TierPoint and local ISPs Brightspeed , Cox , and Windstream all have facilities in the state. The likes of TW Telecom, MSP Mainstream Technologies, and blockchain firm Sollensys also operate in Little Rock. Earlier this year, a "mystery developer" applied to develop a $1bn data center in Little Rock, and another project is planned outside Conway . More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 28 Jan 2026 36MW data center denied near Chicago, Illinois Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 05 Nov 2025 "Nobody really wants a data center in their backyard," says Microsoft attorney Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Arkansas Clarksville Johnson County SF ARK1 LLC Serverfarm Comments