Rezoning proposal for 1.2GW data center campus outside Macon, Georgia, denied recommendation for approval - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Rezoning proposal for 1.2GW data center campus outside Macon, Georgia, denied recommendation for approval So-called 'Bolingbroke Technology Center' would consist of nine data centers July 29, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say A land rezoning proposal for a 1.2GW data center campus outside Macon, Georgia, has been denied recommendation for approval. The campus would be located within Monroe County, which is northwest of Macon. The Bolingbroke Technology Campus – Bolingbroke Technology Center On Monday, the Monroe County Planning and Zoning board voted 5-0 against recommending approval to rezone 970 acres of residential land for commercial use. The land parcel is located on largely undeveloped land along US Highway 41 (aka Dixie Highway), Wadley Road, and I-475. The applicant, Bolingbroke Technology Center, intends to build a campus worth $5.8bn dubbed the ‘Bolingbroke Technology Campus.’ It would be built in three phases , each completed in 2029, 2031, and 2033, and consisting of nine buildings spanning a total of 5.4 million sq ft (501,675 sqm) as well as multiple substations from local utility Central Georgia EMC. According to the site plan on the data center’s website , six of the data centers will offer 100MW and three will offer 200MW. The decision to approve the development now lies in the hands of the Monroe County Board of Commissioners, which will vote on the proposal next Tuesday. Bolingbroke Technology representative Ben Scheidler told WDXA News : “We appreciate the Monroe County Planning & Zoning Board’s time and consideration of our rezoning request for the Bolingbroke Technology Center. “While we are disappointed by the board’s recommendation, we remain confident that the Board of Commissioners will make a fact-based decision about the positive impacts this project offers to all the people of Monroe County.” Little is known about Bolingbroke Technology Center. Most of Georgia’s data centers are clustered around the state capital, Atlanta. More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 27 Feb 2026 American Tower secures zoning permission for two Edge data center sites Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 13 Mar 2026 Sponsored Nostrum Data Centers consolidates its maturity with key milestones in Badajoz, Guadalajara, and Galicia Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? Tags Ben Scheidler Bolingbroke Technology Campus Bolingbroke Technology Center Georgia Macon Monroe County Comments