Montgomery County approves land for two large-scale projects on Amazon data center campus - ABC17NEWS circle-arrow Play Button Stop Button chevron-right chevron-left chevron-up search warning chevron-left-skinny chevron-right-skinny x clock calendar play-button cancel-circle user twitter facebook youtube instagram email linkedin Home Full Election Results News Your Voice Your Vote Education Columbia Crime Jefferson City Missouri US/World Download Our Apps Question of the Day Fuel Finder ABC 17 Investigates Weather ABC 17 Stormtrack Doppler Radar ABC 17 Stormtrack Insider Blog Stormtrack Insider Outdoors ABC 17 Stormtrack Weather Alert Days Forecast Cameras Closings and Delays Download Our Apps Sports Super Bowl 2025 High School Sports Mizzou Tigers SportsZone Football Friday SportsZone Basketball Columbia City Government Jefferson City Government Videos Livestream Special Coverage Livestream Newscasts Life Healthy Living House & Home Healthy Pets Your Money Taxes Go MO Places Community Calendar National Volunteer Month Play Contests Entertainment Share Submit Tips, Pics and Video FOX 22 Community Calendar Jobs Work for KMIZ Experienced Account Executive Explore Local Jobs Intern with KMIZ About Us Download Our Apps Advertise With Us Meet the Team Contact Us Jobs/Internships Closed Captioning EEO Public Filing FCC Public File TV Listings Skip to Content Montgomery Tony Webster / CC BY 2.0 The Amazon Web Services corporate office By Haley Swaino Published December 3, 2025 6:50 PM COLUMBIA, Mo. (KMIZ) Two massive data center projects are moving forward in Montgomery County — one as part of Amazon's data center campus . The Montgomery County Commission received an administrative review confirming land approval for the proposed data canters near the Interstate 70 and Highway 19 interchange. Project Green is by Kansas City' real estate company NorthPoint Development, LLC. Steve Etcher with the Greater Montgomery County Economic Development Council said Amazon wants to build a data center just north of I-70, between New Florence and High Hill. Project Green would cover about 1,000 acres. Plans include four initial buildings, with 13 more to be built in a second phase. Power would come from Ameren under its new "large load tariff" model. Water would come from the Montgomery County Public District. The other project is by a New York-based company called Spade Property Owner, LLC. Project Spade would cover about 780 acres, according to documents. Plans include three large primary buildings — each with more than a million square feet under its roof. A security guard station, visitor center with parking, a pump house and water filtration building are also in the plans. Building permits have not yet been secured, according to the Montgomery County Commission. The next step in the development process will be the purchase of the land. A town hall is set for 6:30 p.m. Monday at Montgomery City Elementary. Article Topic Follows: Montgomery Jump to comments ↓ Haley Swaino Haley Swaino, a graduate of Ohio University, joined ABC 17 News as a multimedia journalist in November 2024. BE PART OF THE CONVERSATION ABC 17 News is committed to providing a forum for civil and constructive conversation. Please keep your comments respectful and relevant. You can review our Community Guidelines by clicking here If you would like to share a story idea, please submit it here .