4.4 million sq ft data center campus gets zoning approval in Fort Meade, Florida - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 4.4 million sq ft data center campus gets zoning approval in Fort Meade, Florida Officials greenlight rezoning 1,163 acres June 17, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A large data center campus could be coming to Florida. – Google Maps The News Chief reports that the Fort Meade city commission voted 5-0 at its June 10 meeting to approve land-use and zoning changes for a proposed campus. Fort Meade, in Polk County, is located some 50 miles east of Tampa. Bohler Places LLC had filed to rezone 1,163 acres west of US Highway 98 to PUD, Planned Unit Development, to allow for up to 4.4 million sq ft (408,775 sqm) of data center development. Further details on the number and capacity of data centers on the campus, as well as project timelines, weren’t shared. An end user for the site hasn’t been named. Interim city manager Alis Drumgo declined to name the company involved to the Chief. The land is owned by Florida Eco Park, LLC and Polk Industrial Park, LLC. The property consists of former phosphate mines and is now used for cattle grazing, a staff report noted. Florida Ecopark bought the land in 2018, according to property records. The application noted that the city's land development code does not specifically recognize data centers, thus requiring a dedicated PUD zoning to allow for use. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: The New Physics of US Data Center Infrastructure 30 Jan 2026 Hillwood affiliate files to develop 2.2 million sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 11 Mar 2026 Applied Materials and SK Hynix to co-develop next-generation DRAM and HBM at $5bn Silicon Valley R&D facility Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Bohler Places,LLC Florida Fort Meade Polk County Comments