Stack Infrastructure finalizes 1.8M square feet in Bristow | Headlines | insidenova.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email This image shows the planned outlay for Stack Infrastructure’s data center complex on 98.3 acres along a three-quarter-mile stretch of Hornbaker Road near the Bristow Target. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save A Denver-based infrastructure company has purchased the final 74 acres needed for a data center campus in Prince William County. Stack Infrastructure announced the purchase of the property at 9590 Hornbaker Road, just southwest of Manassas, on Dec. 13. The company now owns 98.3 acres along the three-quarter-mile stretch of Hornbaker Road near the Bristow Target. “Utilizing the expertise of our site selection and development teams, STACK continues to deliver meaningful, strategic capacity in the world’s top data center region to address the growing needs of our clients,” Ty Miller, chief commercial officer of STACK Americas, said in a news release. “We’re excited to further scale our footprint with powered land in this power-constrained market.” The company has piecemeal purchased the acreage across five properties since January 2020 from a subsidiary of Peterson Cos., a Fairfax-based real estate developer. In total, Stack has spent about $96.9 million for the properties. The company is planning a 1.8-million-square-foot data center campus across seven buildings. The land also includes a dedicated Northern Virginia Electric Cooperative substation. Stack, which builds data centers across the world, has facilities throughout the Americas, Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Africa. In the release, the company said the most recently acquired land would bring the company’s Northern Virginia footprint to nearly 1 gigawatt, which is 1 billion watts. The company says the new facilities will use 100% renewable energy and low-carbon concrete to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and support sustainability commitments. It’s the second development in Prince William the company has announced this year and will bring Stack’s footprint to nine buildings and 2.4 million square feet in the county. In a brochure for the facility , the company notes that Prince William County is on track to become the leading global data center market. “While Loudoun County is often referred to as ‘Data Center Alley,’ Prince William County is fast becoming a strong contender for the title with recent rapid growth and expansion, and STACK’s massive Manassas campus answers the area’s quickly growing capacity needs,” the brochure says. Since December 2019, Prince William County has received zoning applications for roughly 38.1 million square feet of data centers, more than all operating in Loudoun County, on 2,824 acres. While those projects require approval from the Board of County Supervisors, many, like the Stack Infrastructure projects, are on land already zoned for data centers and require only administrative review. The square footage of projects that don’t require board approval is unclear, but at least 4.4 million square feet of data centers on 239 acres of industrially zoned land have been announced this year. GET MORE LOCAL NEWS. Sign up for free e-mail alerts. Nolan Stout covers Prince William County. Reach him at nstout@insidenova.com or @TheNolanStout on Facebook and Twitter . Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Tags Bristow Headlines Prince William County Data Centers Stack Infrastructure Nolan Stout Author facebook Author twitter Author email Follow Nolan Stout × Post a comment as anonymous Emoticons [smile] [beam] [wink] [sad] [cool] [innocent] [rolleyes] [whistling] [lol] [huh] [tongue] [love] [sleeping] [yawn] [unsure] [angry] [blink] [crying] [ohmy] [scared] [sleep] [sneaky] [tongue_smile] [thumbdown] [thumbup] [censored] [happybirthday] [ban] [spam] [offtopic] [batman] [ninja] [pirate] [alien] Comment Text Cancel Post comment × Report Cancel Report Abuse × Watch this discussion. Stop watching this discussion. Watch this discussion Get an email notification whenever someone contributes to the discussion Notifications from this discussion will be disabled. Cancel Start watching Stop watching (4) comments skeptical Dec 23, 2022 10:34am Economic Development's position, there are no parcels left in the overlay, data centers need 100 acre parcels, data centers can't aggregate smaller parcels. This project and several others over the past few months are all in the overlay, less than 100 acres and required the aggregation of smaller parcels. What exactly are we paying our Economic Development director to do other than make baseless assertions in support of her most favored industry. Report Add Reply Master Robin Dec 23, 2022 10:10am Would much rather have ghetto type tract housing or section 8 apartments! Report Add Reply jna Dec 23, 2022 9:50am You forgot all those smelly farm animals grazing on pasture land and nuisance agricultural land where soybeans and grain crops are grown. Population of the USA was 135 million in 1947, is 335 million today, will be 400 million in 2047. USA can't care for the basic needs of 100 million current U.S. residents, has been continually trying to save the Third World from itself for 75 years. Then there are millions of migrants who need homes in the USA. National, regional, local media are accomplices to the continual destruction of the environment..love that ad revenue from continual sprawl development. Pols rubber stamp approve what the oligarchs place in front of them, then disappear after a couple terms in office. Oligarchs live nowhere near the suburban infill or rural sprawl they inflict on others. Report Add Reply Soily Dec 23, 2022 7:44am Yes, we need data centers more than we need these woods and wetlands. Woods and wetlands provide habitat for mosquitos and racoons (some are rabid) and data centers put money in the Ann Wheeler and her cronies bank accounts. Report Add Reply Welcome to the discussion. Log In Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK. Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything. Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person. Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts. Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article. Post a comment Watch this discussion. Stop watching this discussion. OPEN FOR BUSINESS Real-time social media posts from local businesses and organizations across Northern Virginia, powered by Friends2Follow. To add your business to the stream, email cfields@insidenova.com or click on the green button below. Local Events Most Popular Articles on InsideNoVa Articles Collections Articles Fairfax County police sergeant arrested for aggravated sexual battery Fauquier High School students walk out in protest of 'student assassin' game suspensions Woman charged with manslaughter in crash that killed Woodbridge couple Leesburg man charged in Northern Va. bank robbery spree after second suspect dies in police standoff Substitute teacher, 19, charged with making threats to Loudoun County high school Manassas family mourns second brother killed in car crash in under two years Prince William schools face potential $31M funding cut; Lateef says county ‘willing to steal money from children’ Manassas City Council unanimously approves renaming Manassas Regional Airport to Washington Manassas Airport Community rallies around family of 9-year-old autistic boy killed on Route 28 Amazon Data Services purchases 44 acres near Gainesville for $120 million Collections IN PHOTOS: NFL dra