New development coming to Greensburg Advertisement Advertisement Return to Homepage Top Stories: DOJ revives firing squads Golden orb ocean discovery Netanyahu cancer diagnosis $400K Maduro capture bet Israel-Lebanon ceasefire Oklahoma tornado ICE and Border Patrol funding Medical marijuana reclassification Navy secretary ousted Judge blocks Va. voting maps Dec. 11—GREENSBURG — Two major development projects were brought to the attention of Greensburg City Council members Tuesday evening when Economic Development Corporation Director Bryan Robbins brought tax abatement requests to the council's attention. Robbins was accompanied by developer Matt Whitaker whose abatement application involved a 100 room hotel project on Veterans Way. It was reported the hotel will be a four story Marriott-owned Fairfield Inn employing 15 to 20 employees at $19 to $20 per hour. Whitaker said the project was a $14 million investment and would be similar to the Fairfield Inn behind the Texas Roadhouse in Columbus. Advertisement Advertisement A tax abatement is a reduction of, or exemption from, taxes granted by a government for a specified period, usually to encourage certain activities such as investment in capital equipment. Whitaker was granted a 10 year abatement. Robbins also brought an application for an abatement on real estate properties owned by Indianapolis-based Jumping Bison LLC in the newly established Economic Revitalization Area north of town. Accompanying Robbins were Rick Hall from the Barnes and Thornberg law firm and Matt Ehinger from the IceMiller law firm who were there to answer questions about the proposed facility and the multiple abatements requested. It was explained that Jumping Bison LLC wants to construct a multi-building data center on approximately 340 acres north of town. Advertisement Advertisement According to Wikipedia, a data center is a building, a dedicated space within a building, or a group of buildings used to house computer systems and associated components, such as telecommunications and storage systems. Ehinger, representing Jumping Bison LLC, explained the project will be developed in two phases with each representing $400 million in investments. The number of employees was not specified, but it was stated that each will be paid 125% of the average wage in Decatur County. Council members approved the requested abatements unanimously. Contact Bill Rethlake at 812-651-0876 or email bill.rethlake@greensburgdailynews.com View comments About Our Ads Recommended articles Sean McVay comes off as 'muted,' 'mad' after Rams' surprise pick of Alabama QB Ty Simpson The Rams delivered the shock of the draft by selecting Simpson at No. 13. Yahoo Sports Newly surfaced photos reportedly show Mike Vrabel, Dianna Russini at NYC bar in 2020, Mississippi casino in 2024 Russini resigned from her post at The Athletic on April 14, and Vrabel is skipping Day 3 of the NFL Draft to seek counseling. Yahoo Sports New data shows China came into the Iran war with over 3x the strategic oil reserves of the US New data from the US government released this week shows just how aggressively China added to its oil reserves ahead of the war in Iran. Yahoo Finance Trump's U.N. Ambassador Mike Waltz says bombing every bridge and power plant in Iran wouldn't be a war crime U.N. Ambassador Mike Waltz defended President Trump's threat to destroy every power plant and bridge in Iran, telling ABC's "This Week" on Sunday that such strikes would not be a war crime. Yahoo News Manny Pacquiao buys shuttered Floyd Mayweather gym, will use it as base of operations for upcoming rematch From Mayweather Boxing + Fitness to Pacquiao Prime Boxing. Uncrowned Mysterious golden orb discovered on the ocean floor near Alaska is identified over 2 years later "Isn't the deep sea so delightfully strange?" one scientist said when it was discovered in 2023. Yahoo News Ric Flair vents about WWE's 'lack of respect' after alleged WrestleMania snub: 'Are you kidding me?' The 77-year-old pro wrestling legend is irate after what he perceived to be less-than-welcoming treatment in Las Vegas. Uncrowned Urijah Faber knows he'll be shorter, smaller and older than Arman Tsarukyan at RAF 8 — but so what? Former MMA champ Urijah Faber turns 47 next month, but that's no reason not to wrestle top UFC contender Arman Tsarukyan, he says. If anything, it's all the more reason to test himself now, while he still can. Uncrowned Kentucky governor appears to criticize retirement package given to outgoing AD Mitch Barnhart Barnhart, who is retiring this summer, is set to make nearly $1 million a year in a new role with the university. Yahoo Sports Knicks lose, Mets blow 4-run lead and Jets make much-criticized NFL Draft selection in wild 4 minutes for New York sports Thursday was a big night for New York sports. It didn't go well for everybody. Yahoo Sports Advertisement