Reno City Council approves another North Valleys data center GOVERNMENT North Valleys' second Reno data center approved after appeal of planning commission denial Jaedyn Young Reno Gazette Journal March 14, 2025, 2:41 p.m. PT An appeal for a second North Valleys data center was approved unanimously Wednesday by the Reno City Council, which overturned the planning commission’s original denial. The Reno planning commission asked the City Council to hold off on approving more data centers last month until members could fully understand their effects. The City Council had the opportunity to change regulations in the codes for data centers, but the vote failed . The new data center's location will be North Virginia Street and Stead Boulevard, next to the previously approved Webb Data Center . The planning commission had denied the Oppidan Data Center over concerns there weren’t enough water or power resources available for the project. The data center is planning to use 8 acre-feet of water and 8 megawatts of power a year. Eight megawatts is enough to power at least 3,200 homes for a year, according to the city, and a typical single-family home uses a half to 1 acre-foot of water a year. The council's first approval, the Webb Data Center, uses 28.5 megawatts of power and 2 acre-feet of water in comparison. Garrett Gordon, representative for the Oppidan data center, showed the council that both NV Energy and the Truckee Meadows Water Authority approved their planned use for water and power, and said the development won't use public funds. Councilmember Naomi Duerr said she is still concerned about what many of the public commenters were saying about high power usage and the effects on ratepayers. Despite the developer paying for the power they will use and the infrastructure needed to connect to an existing power substation, Duerr said they are still using NV Energy’s power, not making or bringing their own. “What the people are talking about is that you have to make more power to provide the 8 megawatts … and when NV Energy has to go build another power station, that falls to the ratepayers to pay, not this company,” Duerr said. “Rates end up having to go up.” Duerr ended up voting for the project, saying the water usage is low and she believes the developer is making an attempt to listen to the public's concerns. Those included the company relying partially on renewable energy with solar panels, and making the fencing around the property less "prison-like." Councilmember Meghan Ebert also was on the fence before voting to approve but said she was glad the applicant was willing to work with the council and the neighbors on the fencing and solar panels. “I might not think that this is the best use of our resources, but the applicant has tried to accommodate everything,” Ebert said. Mayor Hillary Schieve said she wished data center applications weren’t coming so quickly, since three have already applied for permits in the last two months. All three have been approved to start building. Schieve said the council and planning commission would try to have a joint meeting to talk about data centers more in-depth in the future. Jaedyn Young covers local government for the Reno Gazette-Journal. Her wages are 100% funded by donations and grants; if you’d like to see more stories like this one, please consider donating at RGJ.com/donate . Send your story ideas and feedback to Jaedyn at jyoung@rgj.com . Featured Weekly Ad