Amazon files for 3.8 million sq ft data center campus in Louisa County, Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Amazon files for 3.8 million sq ft data center campus in Louisa County, Virginia Company files for second Louisa County campus November 05, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Amazon has filed to develop a large data center campus in Louisa County, Virginia. A filing with the US Army Corps of Engineers’ Norfolk District shows Amazon Data Services filing for permission to build a data center campus, to be known as the Northeast Creek Technology Campus. The 374-acre campus, located on the west line of Jefferson Highway (Route 33) and east of Desper Creek, would include 10 382,000 sq ft (35,490 sqm) data center buildings, three substations, and logistic and administrative buildings. The project is set to impact around one acre of wetlands and just under 2,000 feet of streams. Louisa County is located in central Virginia, northwest of Richmond. The county is not known for its data center developments, though neighboring Richmond is home to developments from Meta, QTS, Flexential, EdgeConneX, and Lumen. In August 2022, the Louisa County Board of Supervisors announced that AWS is planning an $11 billion investment by 2040 to establish two data center campuses in Louisa’s Technology Overlay District (TOD). Amazon filed to develop a 153-acre campus in Louisa County in September 2023 . The Lake Anna Tech Campus, located east of the intersection of Haley Drive and Kentucky Road, would feature up to seven data center buildings totaling 1.7 million sq ft (157,935 sqm) as well as two substations. The newly-filed campus is around 10 miles southwest of the Lake Anna site. Amazon already has a significant presence in Northern Virginia and continues to expand in the area. In addition to facilities in Loudoun and Fairfax Counties as well as Prince William , the company is making moves to establish data centers in Fauquier , Culpeper , King George , Spotsylvania , and Caroline Counties. Louisa’s Technology Overlay District was established in 2023. It aims to promote the development of technology centers in areas of the county where existing or proposed infrastructure could support them. The newly zoned areas cover six land parcels , offering hundreds of acres mostly located in the center of the county. More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 18 Nov 2025 AI cloud company Lambda raises more than $1.5bn in Series E funding round Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 18 Nov 2025 Accelsius claims 300MW customer win with new operator in Canada Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach Tags Virginia US Army Corps of Engineers AWS Amazon Web Services Louisa County Amazon Data Services Northeast Creek Technology Campus Comments