Howell Township board OKs 6-month data center moratorium; opponents say it exempts current plan • Michigan Advance 10:40 News Story Business Energy Environment Technology Howell Township board OKs 6-month data center moratorium; opponents say it exempts current plan By: Ben Solis and Jon King - November 21, 2025 10:40 am Livingston County sign opposing proposed Howell Township data center | Courtesy of Stop the Data Centers Livingston County. Updated 9:40 a.m. on 11/21/25 As plans and announcements for new AI data centers proliferate across Michigan, a Howell Township trustee is telling people that the parent company for Facebook and Instagram is behind another project planned on more than 1,000 acres of agricultural land. Bob Wilson, a member of the Howell Township Board of Trustees, confirmed with Michigan Advance on Thursday that Meta was pushing the project. But Wilson said he and members of the board have known about the development for months now. Messages seeking comment from Meta’s public affairs and press office were not returned at the time of publication. In September, Wilson took to Facebook, ironically, to say that he was one of several people in the Howell area who took a bus to New Albany, Ohio, to tour the community, which has become a hotspot for data centers, the Livingston Post reported . Meta has a data center in New Albany, Ohio. Wilson said then that he believed a Meta data center could possibly land at the facility when completed with a $9 billion investment. It was his estimation that the center, if approved, would take up at least 20% of the 1,000-acre space with the remaining space for the data center. On Wednesday, the Livingston County Planning Commission heard from locals about a decision to rezone the farm land to build the data center. The commission ultimately rejected the project and recommended that the Howell Township Board of Trustees reject the project, as well. The board met Thursday evening to discuss the project and unanimously voted in favor of a six-month moratorium on data center applications. However, members of the group Stop the Data Centers Livingston County say that the moratorium as passed does not apply to the current developer and that a December 8 meeting of the Howell Township board will decide that project. Local governments should serve residents, not corporations. Data centers do the opposite. “The public overwhelmingly asked for a moratorium on rezoning applications to pause the current data center proposal. Instead, the attorney drafted a moratorium that only applies to site plan applications, a completely different stage in the process,” Breanne Green, one of the group’s leaders, told the Advance. “Because of that narrow definition, the moratorium does not apply to the developer’s rezoning request. The developer is still allowed to move forward, and the Township Board can still approve the rezoning next month. This means the most consequential decision — whether to rezone hundreds of acres for a hyperscale data center — is not paused.” Green noted that Trustee Tim Boal made a motion to expand the moratorium to include rezoning approvals, which she says would have aligned with the community’s request. However, Green said no one seconded his motion and it died without discussion. “Technically, if the rezoning is approved, later steps such as site plans would be on hold under the moratorium — but the critical gateway decision remains fully open. In practice, residents asked for a hard pause across the board, and the board delivered the opposite. There is also concern that if the Township later amends its ordinances to require data centers to be located in Industrial zoning (as many communities do), developers could pursue legal action if they’ve already secured rezoning under the current rules. In short: the moratorium does not pause the current project. It only delays later stages, not the rezoning decision the public is most concerned about,” Green said. MLive also reported Thursday that Wilson confirmed Meta was behind the project. Wilson further told MLive that he met with a Meta “land crew” both in person and over a Zoom call, and that they didn’t hide the ball that they worked for Meta. In an interview with the Advance, Wilson said that it was possible the developer on the project would build the center and then sell it to a third-party, like Meta or others exploring AI, much like Google. He did say, however, that it was his understanding that Meta builds its own projects and doesn’t usually play the middle man. This story was updated with new details and comments following a vote by the Howell Township Board of Trustees. Join Michigan Advance’s year-end fundraising drive. Between now and December 31, we’re aiming to raise $10,000 to power our nonprofit news into the new year. Your donation today will support trusted and essential reporting — right when Michigan needs it most. If our work has helped you understand Michigan better, consider supporting our work today. SUPPORT Ben Solis Ben Solis is the senior reporter for Michigan Advance. Solis has covered state and local government for nearly a decade as a former staff writer with Gongwer News Service and multiple MLive newsrooms. He is an award-winning writer and editor and was a finalist for the Michigan Press Association Richard Milliman Journalist of the Year award in 2022 for his work covering Michigan's independent redistricting process. Michigan Advance is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR Jon King Jon King is the Michigan Advance’s editor-in-chief, having previously served as the outlet's senior reporter, covering education, elections and LGBTQ+ issues. King has been a journalist for more than 35 years and is the Past President of the Michigan Associated Press Media Editors Association. He has been recognized for excellence numerous times, most recently in 2025 for Best Sports Writing by the Michigan Press Association. Michigan Advance is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Community pushback prompts Sault Tribe leadership to adopt moratorium on data centers by Kyle Davidson April 10, 2026 Deep Green pulls request to rezone downtown Lansing parcel, axing data center proposal by Kyle Davidson April 6, 2026 Nessel, officials use town hall to demand transparency amid Michigan’s AI expansion by Leah Craig March 31, 2026