Hays County says AI data center is likely to go forward despite community outcry Advertisement Advertisement Return to Homepage Top Stories: DOJ revives firing squads Golden orb ocean discovery Netanyahu cancer diagnosis $400K Maduro capture bet Israel-Lebanon ceasefire Oklahoma tornado ICE and Border Patrol funding Medical marijuana reclassification Navy secretary ousted Judge blocks Va. voting maps HAYS COUNTY, Texas (KXAN) – Concerned residents packed the Hays County Commissioners Court Tuesday to decry plans to build an Artificial Intelligence data center in a rural part of Hays and Guadalupe County. After hearing public comments from around two dozen residents and a presentation from CloudBurst Data Centers – the company behind the project – Hays County Judge Ruben Becerra told the crowd the project would likely go forward as the court has limited power when it comes to development on private property. Hays County is currently reviewing CloudBurst’s flood hazard permit application. Advertisement Advertisement “If it meets our requirements, we have an administrative authority to approve the permit,” said Marcus Pacheco, the director of Development Services at Hays County. CloudBurst Data Centers announced plans to build the AI data center in February. KXAN determined that this address is where the development would go. CloudBurst Data Centers announced plans to build the AI data center in February. Families in a rural part of Hays County quickly learned it would be built in their neighborhood and have been fighting it ever since. “We’re just absolutely destroyed by the prospect of having a data center literally across the road,” said Abigail Lindsey, whose family has owned property near the site for years. “We’re in stage three drought instructions… Also, the noise, the light pollution, and the disturbance of wildlife,” she continued. “There are oak trees, pecan trees – there’s cattle grazing out there right now, and they’re just gonna pave over it and it’s gonna be concrete and servers.” Advertisement Advertisement Lindsey was among those decrying the project on Tuesday. Many others echoed her sentiment, with water being a top concern, both in terms of water use and pollution into San Marcos’ waterways. Water is used to cool down equipment within data centers. A large data center can use over 500,000 gallons of water a day, the equivalent of over 4,000 people’s daily water use, according to the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. CloudBurst said it will recycle its water and attempted to dispel concerns about tainted water leaking into streams. CloudBust said it has not yet determined how much water the center will use. “I have not seen any studies that show us that there are massive leaks. And even if there is a leak, it leaks into the data center, it doesn’t leak out into the field,” said Cynthia Thompson, an executive chairperson with CloudBurst. Advertisement Advertisement Thompson attempted to address public concerns in her presentation to the commissioners court. According to the CloudBurst presentation backup documents, the company would attempt to use solar panels, low-level lighting and minimal water. The company said it would not build in a floodplain and would keep noise to a minimum. Thompson said the company is committed to preserving wildlife. CloudBurst’s data center site. (Photo Courtesy Hays County) “We have 20 to 30 acres around the creek that’ll be in a natural state. We’ll add improvements to help wildlife exist there, and then hopefully have a park if the county is willing,” Thompson said. A key part of Thompson’s presentation was education on the need for more data centers. Advertisement Advertisement “When you Google someone, when you take a picture, all that goes in the cloud, and so you need more data center space to hold that,” Thompson said. “We’re fulfilling a need in a community.” “I don’t think there’s ever a perfect place when you’re building a data center,” she continued. “Never will you have 100% of the people happy.” Copyright 2025 Nexstar Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. For the latest news, weather, sports, and streaming video, head to KXAN Austin. View comments About Our Ads Recommended articles Blazers star Deni Avdija has tooth chipped by Spurs' De'Aaron Fox, then gets called for a foul Deni Avdija has a visit to the dentist in his future. Yahoo Sports As No. 57 pick in 2026 NFL Draft, Logan Jones receives lifetime supply of Heinz ketchup "Let's go, ketchup!" the Iowa lineman said after being selected by the Chicago Bears and learning of his lifetime gift. Yahoo Sports Kayden McDonald overcome with emotion after his long wait in green room ends in 2nd round Kayden McDonald was talked into staying for the second day of the draft. Yahoo Sports Where to watch San Antonio Spurs vs. Portland Trail Blazers Game 3 NBA playoffs: Live stream, start time, TV channel, odds for Friday, April 24 The Trail Blazers take on the Spurs in Game 3 of their first-round playoff series. Yahoo Sports Blue Jays demote Jeff Hoffman from closer role after early struggles, World Series infamy It hasn't been a good several months for the Blue Jays' right-hander. Yahoo Sports Kevin Durant ruled out for Game 3 of Rockets-Lakers due to left ankle sprain The Rockets missed Kevin Durant in Game 1 and got him back in Game 2. Now he's out for Game 3. Yahoo Sports The 15 best affordable Mother's day gifts to give Mom this year — all under $50 A Bogg Bag look-alike, sparkly Kate Spade studs and more top finds that only look expensive. Yahoo Shopping Chinese AI company DeepSeek releases its V4 model preview, amping up competition with U.S. rivals Chinese AI startup DeepSeek has released a preview of its latest model, V4, a year after it first surprised the AI industry with its more cost-effective model. Yahoo Tech Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu reveals prostate cancer treatment. What to know about the disease that impacts millions worldwide The leader of Israel called the situation a "minor medical issue." Doctors say the disease often grows slowly. Yahoo Health 2026 NFL Draft: Nick Saban caught on hot mic trashing Cowboys' first-round pick: 'Wow, this is a reach' Nick Saban wasn't a big fan of one of the Cowboys' picks Thursday. Yahoo Sports Advertisement