AWS plans 2.5 million sq ft data center campus in Kline Township, Pennsylvania - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel AWS plans 2.5 million sq ft data center campus in Kline Township, Pennsylvania Campus could have up to ten buildings January 26, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say Amazon Web Services (AWS) is seeking to develop another major data center campus in Pennsylvania. Proposed for Kline Township, AWS is looking to construct ten data center buildings with a total of 2.5 million sq ft (232,257 sqm) of floor space, as per a report from the Standard Speaker . – Google Maps The 346-acre site would be located on Lofty Road in Kline Township, bounded by Interstate 81 and State Route 309 in the township in Schuylkill County, in western Pennsylvania. AWS purchased the land in 2025 for $178 million, which was previously slated to become a three-million-square-foot warehouse for Brewster Development Co. Speaking at a Kline Township Supervisor meeting on January 17, Becky Ford, director of AWS’ Economic Development team, said: "We worked within the footprint to design a data center campus that fit within what was already approved and zoned and, to some extent, permitted." Ford noted that some permits have yet to be secured. The campus will have an estimated 25-30 full-time jobs per building. In June 2025, AWS pledged to invest $20 billion in data centers in Pennsylvania. At the time, the company said it would focus on Salem Township (some 30 miles north of Kline Township) and Falls Township (110+ miles southeast of Kline Township), but was also considering other communities. According to Amazon, the company has invested more than $26 billion in Pennsylvania, including infrastructure and compensation to employees, since 2010. AWS has been looking to develop in Salem Township since early 2024 . The company acquired an existing data center from Talen Energy and around 1,200 acres of land. AWS successfully rezoned 1,600 acres in the area to “Special Data Center Overlay District" in May 2024 . AWS plans to develop 15 data center buildings on the site over the course of the next decade. AWS is also interested in nearby Banks Township, according to the Standard Speaker. More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 21 Apr 2026 Officials in North Carolina County give ok for rezoning, potential data center incoming Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in Cloud & Hyperscale Accelerating hyperscale deployments in the AI era 25 Mar 2026 Google inks two solar PPAs with Sunraycer in Texas Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control Tags AWS Amazon Web Services Becky Ford Lofty Road Pennsylvania Comments