Microsoft to start permitting for 1,385-acre data center campus in North Carolina - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Microsoft to start permitting for 1,385-acre data center campus in North Carolina Company expanding near Virginia border February 25, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Microsoft is set to soon begin construction of a large data center campus in North Carolina. The technology firm acquired the 1,350-acre Person County Mega Park in Woodsdale Township back in November 2024 , reportedly paying $26.85 million for the land. At the time, no plans for the site were shared. – Person County Person County, however, this week announced that Microsoft plans to begin the permitting process for data center development later this year. The company is reportedly still in the early stages of development and will share detailed plans as they become available. Kyle Puryear, Person County board of commissioners chairman, said: “Person County is proud to welcome Microsoft as a valued corporate and community partner. We are excited to learn more about their plans for data center development in our county and are confident that their presence will drive economic growth and enhance community well-being through strategic investment, job creation, and responsible stewardship of resources.” Located on the border of North Carolina and Virginia, Woodsdale is located some seven miles north of Roxboro, and 16 miles (25.7km) south of South Boston. The county noted that Microsoft has promised it will pay its own way to ensure its development does not increase electricity prices, minimize water use while replenishing more than consumed, create jobs for local residents, contribute to the county’s tax base, and support the community through investments in local information technology training and non-profits. Scott McKinney, Person County economic development chairman, added: "Person County and others interested in the prosperity of Personians labored and invested significant financial resources for over a decade to develop the megasite with the hope of attracting a special corporate partner. We are eager to support Microsoft's strategic long-term investment in Person County." Microsoft is developing several data center sites in North Carolina. In November 2022, the company announced plans to invest at least $1 billion on four data centers in North Carolina's Catawba County , around 50 miles (80.4km) northwest of Charlotte. The company broke ground on three sites in the county in 2024. Google is also present in North Carolina, while Amazon is developing a campus there. Neocloud Nscale is set to locate in the state. More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 13 Nov 2025 Cerebras signs MoU for 100MW data center in Guyana Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 07 Apr 2026 50MW data center could be built in Colorado Springs Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Microsoft North Carolina Person County Person County Mega Park Roxboro Woodsdale Township Comments