Google confirms 1GW data center campus near Detroit, Michigan, partners with DTE Energy on 2.7GW power generation - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Google confirms 1GW data center campus near Detroit, Michigan, partners with DTE Energy on 2.7GW power generation Partnership with DTE Energy will bring 2.7GW of "new, clean resources" to local grid March 18, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say Google is behind a 1GW data center campus proposed in Van Buren, near Detroit, Michigan. The development, thus far known as Project Cannoli, was proposed by Panattoni in December 2025 . – Van Buren Township While at the time the end user was not shared, Google confirmed on Tuesday, March 17, that it was the company behind the project, as per a report from the Detroit Free Press . The data center campus is set to be constructed on around 130 acres of a 282-acre plot of land south of Interstate 275. north of Interstate 94, and east of Haggerty Road. Based on the site plans , it seems likely that the site will have three data centers, as well as a networking building and an office building. The total footprint will exceed 800,000 sq ft (74,320 sqm). Walbridge will serve as the general contractor on the project. In addition to the gigawatt-scale data center campus, Google has shared that it is partnering with DTE Energy to bring 2.7GW of "new, clean resources" to the local grid, which will be used to power the data center. A blog post shared by the cloud company states that the power resources will include solar power, advanced storage technologies, and demand flexibility. Through a clean capacity acceleration agreement with DTE, this will help the state move away from coal-fired power. According to a report from TechCrunch , this will be broken down into 1.6GW of solar power, 400MW of four-hour energy storage, 50MW of long-duration storage, and 300MW of "additional clean resources." TechCrunch asked if this could include natural gas, but did not receive a response. The remaining 350MW will be covered by demand response. In August 2025 , Google partnered with Indiana Michigan Power to enable demand response capabilities at its data centers under its jurisdiction. Google will cover its electricity costs and infrastructure needs for the campus. In addition, it is setting up a $10m Energy Impact fund that will help "scale and accelerate energy affordability initiatives that are designed to drive down monthly bills for communities in Michigan." Google has previously made a similar "bring your own power" agreement with Xcel Energy . Much of Michigan's data center market is centered around Detroit. A handful of large projects have been proposed for the state of late, including a 1GW campus by Related Digital that is set to serve as part of OpenAI's Stargate project, and a 1,000-acre campus proposed in September 2025. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 25 Nov 2025 Amazon announces $15bn data center & AI investment plan for Northern Indiana Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 28 Nov 2025 OpenAI must find $207bn to meet AI data center spending commitments - HSBC Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags DTE Energy Detroit Google Michigan PPA Panattoni Power Purchase Agreement Project Cannoli Van Buren Wayne County Comments