$1.2B hyperscale data center campus planned for Bosque County Dallas News Logo Hearst Newspapers Logo Skip to main content Business // Energy CyrusOne, Calpine to develop a $1.2B hyperscale data center campus in Central Texas The 190-megawatt agreement would serve a new data center in Bosque County. By Lana Ferguson , Energy & Natural Resources Reporter July 30, 2025 CyrusOne Two major Texas companies are partnering to develop a $1.2 billion hyperscale data center campus in Bosque County that will be the first U.S. data center to be co-located with an existing energy source. Dallas-based CyrusOne , a global data center developer and operator, and Houston-based Calpine Corporation ― the country's largest generator of electricity from natural gas and geothermal resources ― announced on Wednesday a new 190-megawatt agreement to serve a new data center adjacent to the Thad Hill Energy Center. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The deal comes as Texas emerges as a hotbed of data center construction linked to the buildout of artificial intelligence. The agreement is expected to secure power, grid connection and land to support the new facility, which is under construction and expected to be operational by the end of 2026. "We're excited to be a partner in this project to deliver cutting-edge data center infrastructure to Texas, bringing jobs, innovation, and economic growth to the region," Rick Peña, Calpine's executive vice president of corporate development, said in statement. The campus, named DFW10, is being constructed by CyrusOne, which is backed by top investment firms Global Infrastructure Partners, a part of BlackRock and KKR. Dallas News Logo Don't let Google decide who you trust. Make Dallas News a preferred source so your search results prioritize writing by actual people, not AI. Add Preferred Source Related: Nvidia-backed AI computing firm has plans for $700M Plano data center Advertisement Article continues below this ad The new multiphase data center campus will span more than 190,000 square feet in the first phase, according to the release, with scalable capacity to meet future demand. The campus will feature climate-neutral initiatives, water conservation, biodiversity protection and capabilities to respond during ERCOT grid emergencies, the companies added. "We're proud to be part of this landmark project, which combines dedicated power and data center expertise to deliver a unique, mission-critical solution to our customers," said John Hatem, CyrusOne's chief operating officer. He added that as AI drives data demand, the campus shows the company's commitment to delivering scalable, reliable infrastructure while supporting grid reliability. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Related: Firm to build $650M data centers in southern Dallas County State Rep. Angelia Orr, R-Itasca, called the partnership a win for Bosque County and Texas. "By bringing together world-class energy infrastructure and cutting-edge data center development, Calpine and CyrusOne are helping to power the future while investing in rural communities like ours," Orr said in a statement. "I'm proud to support innovative projects like this that bring jobs, strengthen our grid, and keep Texas at the forefront of economic growth and technology." Advertisement Article continues below this ad Together with ERCOT, Calpine's platform will be able to deliver up to 400 megawatts of power to data centers located in Bosque County. Related: Data centers drive ERCOT’s massive power demand forecast Catch up on the latest news and top stories from across North Texas, with updates in the morning and evening. Email Sign Up Your website By signing up, you agree to our Terms Of Use and acknowledge that your information will be used as described in our Privacy Policy . A recent CBRE report found hyperscalers, developers and AI companies are continuing to pour money into the Dallas-Fort Worth area, breaking ground on new projects. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The report said space currently under construction will double the size of the region's data center market by the end of next year. This reporting is part of the Future of North Texas, a community-funded journalism initiative supported by the Commit Partnership, Communities Foundation of Texas, The Dallas Foundation, the Dallas Mavericks, the Dallas Regional Chamber, Deedie Rose, the McCune-Losinger Family Fund, The Meadows Foundation, the Perot Foundation, the United Way of Metropolitan Dallas and the University of Texas at Dallas. The News retains full editorial control of this coverage. Lana Ferguson Energy & Natural Resources Reporter Lana Ferguson joined The Dallas Morning News after reporting in South Carolina's Lowcountry for The Island Packet & Beaufort Gazette newspapers. She graduated from the University of Mississippi where she studied journalism and Southern studies. She's a Virginia native but her work has taken her all over the U.S., southern Africa, and Sri Lanka. See more on: Dallas Future of North Texas Most Popular 1 . 10 players the Cowboys could target with No. 92 pick in NFL draft 2 . Dallas Cowboys trade for 49ers LB, ex-TCU standout Dee Winters 3 . Former Cowboys star Micah Parsons offers advice to new Dallas safety Caleb Downs 4 . A Frisco park bigger than NYC’s Central Park will break ground Monday 5 . 'It was surgical': How the Cowboys used two NFL draft trades to replenish their defense Latest Headlines Commentary Dallas is hosting the FIFA World Cup. Let’s start by hosting our neighbors. SMU Mustangs Former UNT point guard David Terrell Jr. reportedly transferring to SMU Commentary Editorial cartoon: AI office Editorials McKinney’s surf park points to its next wave of growth