Northern Kentucky family declines $26 million bid as data center plans advance Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 70 ° Sat 76 ° Sun 73 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY Northern Kentucky family declines $26 million bid as data center plans advance by David Winter, WKRC Wed, March 18, 2026 at 8:18 PM Updated Tue, March 24, 2026 at 9:07 PM 5 VIEW ALL PHOTOS A woman and her mother in Northern Kentucky just turned down a $26 million offer for their property because they don't want to see a data center built there. (WKRC) Comment on this story 13 Comment Share story Share topics: Northern Kentucky Data center Land sale Farmland AI companies Rezoning Maysville Community opposition MAYSVILLE, Ky. (WKRC) - A Northern Kentucky woman and her mother have declined a $26 million offer to sell part of their farmland, saying they do not want it turned into a data center. Ida Huddleston and her family own about 1,200 acres of farmland outside Maysville. Last April, an unnamed company approached them about purchasing roughly half the property for a proposed data center. “Stay and hold and feed a nation,” said Delsia Bare, Huddleston’s daughter. “$26 million doesn’t mean anything.” A woman and her mother in Northern Kentucky just turned down a $26 million offer for their property because they don't want to see a data center built there. (WKRC, Provided) Bare said her family’s ties to the land span generations. “My grandfather and great-grandfather and a whole bunch of family have all lived here for years, paid taxes on it, fed a nation off of it,” she said. “Even raised wheat through the Depression and kept bread lines up in the United States of America when people didn’t have anything else.” Bare said she is among dozens of landowners approached by an anonymous buyer described as a major artificial intelligence company. Land in Mason County is valued at about $6,000 per acre, she said, while the offer she received was roughly ten times that amount. “They call us old stupid farmers, you know, but we’re not,” Huddleston said. “We know whenever our food is disappearing, our lands are disappearing, and we don’t have any water—and that poison. Well, we know we’ve had it.” Huddleston, 82, said she has no interest in selling. “I say they’re a liar, and the truth isn’t in them,” she said, referring to claims the project would bring jobs and economic growth. “That’s what I say. It’s a scam.” Bare compared her attachment to the land to Scarlett O’Hara in “Gone With the Wind.” “As she was attached to that land,” Bare said. “Her spirit never would die. That’s the exact same thing for me right here. As long as I’m on this land—as long as it’s feeding me—as long as it’s taking care of me—there’s nothing that can destroy me if I’ve got this land.” Despite their refusal, Bare said the company revised its plans using land from owners who agreed to sell, meaning the data center could still be built nearby. Comment with Bubbles READ THE COMMENTS (13) A zoning request has been filed to rezone nearly 28 agricultural parcels totaling more than 2,000 acres near Big Pond Pike, Germantown Road and Valley Pike Road. The Joint Planning Commission is scheduled to hold public meetings on March 25 and 26 at 5:30 p.m. at the Maysville Community and Technical College Fields Auditorium. Trending Local cafe says it may close next month after being notified by its landlord The business has operated for 25 years. Man killed in crash after reportedly fleeing authorities on motorcycle It happened at 10:11 p.m. on SR-133 near the Village of Blanchester. Opening date set for Tri-State's next Wawa location The store, located on Montgomery Road, will open Thursday, May 14. Child fighting for her life after slushie found to be contaminated with meth, fentanyl The child was taken to a hospital for emergency treatment and remained in critical condition. Doctor indicted on 80-plus sex assault charges involving 22 patients A Boston doctor already facing rape allegations in another county has been indicted on more than 80 sexual assault charges in a new case. NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 7 Judge announces verdict for Cincinnati father in dog mauling death trial 3 Cincinnati’s first female police chief reflects on historic rise through department 4 Here's what proposed Amtrak budget cuts could mean for expanded Cincinnati rail service 5 Greater Cincinnati students test their limits, skills in 'Guardian Games'