Construction begins on $3 billion AI data center near Fargo - InForum | Fargo, Moorhead and West Fargo news, weather and sports Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Saturday, April 25 Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Fargo Construction begins on $3 billion AI data center near Fargo Photos show crews breaking ground on the controversial project that the Harwood City Council approved last week. Construction begins on Applied Digital’s data center on Monday, Sept. 15, 2025, southeast of Harwood, North Dakota. Alyssa Goelzer / The Forum By April Baumgarten September 15, 2025 at 5:36 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? HARWOOD, N.D. — Construction has begun on a $3 billion artificial intelligence data center north of Fargo. Crews were seen Monday, Sept. 15, breaking ground for Polaris Forge 2, the name of Applied Digital’s AI data center, near the North Softball Complex. When finished, the site between Harwood and Fargo east of Interstate 29 will be home to a 280-megawatt facility that sits on 160 acres of land. ADVERTISEMENT Applied Digital has proposed a $3 billion data center be constructed just southeast of the town of Harwood, North Dakota. Map by The Forum The site falls in Harwood’s extraterritorial zone. The Harwood City Council gave final authorization Sept. 10 for construction to begin on the AI data center. Harwood leaders and Applied Digital said the center will create more than 200 jobs and boost tax revenue for the city after it fully opens in 2027. Applied Digital Chairman and CEO Wes Cummins called the location a “great fit for us,” noting the electrical grid and cool climate that could help keep the facility cooler more efficiently than southern states. Subscribers Only Business CEO of company behind Harwood AI data center answers commonly asked questions The Forum interviewed Applied Digital Chairman and CEO Wes Cummins to gain more insight about the Harwood facility. Sep 13, 2025 · By April Baumgarten Some have protested the center, questioning its local impacts and how quickly the city moved to approve the project. Applied Digital announced the project less than a month ago. The Texas-based company hosted a town hall meeting, and the City Council and City Planning and Zoning Committee held public hearings on Sept. 2 to gather input from residents. Attendees asked questions and commented about the project, though some shouted from the crowd and called leaders cowards. Construction begins on Applied Digital’s data center on Monday, Sept. 15, 2025, southeast of Harwood, North Dakota. Alyssa Goelzer / The Forum Harwood Mayor Blake Hankey said the majority of protesters came from out of town, and that most residents in Harwood support the center. Residents who attended a packed Wednesday special meeting asked the City Council to postpone the final vote to rezone the project’s site from agriculture to light industrial. The council did not take public comment at the meeting, nor did they discuss that vote before unanimously approving the rezone. Construction begins on Applied Digital’s data center on Monday, Sept. 15, 2025, southeast of Harwood, North Dakota. Alyssa Goelzer / The Forum With that vote came final approval of the building permit for the project, meaning Applied Digital and its associates could start construction on the center. ADVERTISEMENT Applied Digital is building a similar facility in Ellendale, N.D. A mockup of Applied Digital’s 280-megawatt data center, or AI factory, set to be built near Harwood, North Dakota, with construction starting as early as September. Contributed / Applied Digital Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags NORTH DAKOTA FARGO HARWOOD ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE APPLIED DIGITAL By April Baumgarten April Baumgarten is the Fargo city government reporter. The North Dakota native started her journalism career in 2011 and joined The Forum in February 2019. Readers can reach her at 701-241-5417 or abaumgarten@forumcomm.com . Twitter Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Fargo Fargo man's family upset over plea deal in fatal New Year's Day shooting 5h ago · By Matt Henson Fargo Fargo-Moorhead businesses connect students with real-world careers 8h ago · By Ryan McNamara Fargo Fargo nurse honored for volunteer work 8h ago · By Hunter Schwartz ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT Must Reads Fargo Fargo man's family upset over plea deal in fatal New Year's Day shooting 5h ago · By Matt Henson College McFeely: It’s a big weekend in Jack Strand’s hometown of Bloomer, Wisconsin 11h ago · By Mike McFeely The Vault North Dakota politician credited with getting high-ranking Nazi's 1948 death sentence commuted 14h ago · By Sav Kelly North Dakota Wild horses of western North Dakota now part of book, "Untamed" 8h ago · By Kevin Wallevand