Jet.AI, CCE form JV to develop 50MW data center in Clark County, Nevada - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Jet.AI, CCE form JV to develop 50MW data center in Clark County, Nevada Will be located next to a 200MW BESS facility at the site of a decommissioned coal power plant December 24, 2025 By Zachary Skidmore Have your say U.S. AI data center developer Jet.AI has signed a joint venture (JV) agreement with infrastructure construction firm Choo Choo Express (CCE) to develop a data center campus in Moapa, Clark County, Nevada. – Jet.AI The 50MW data center is planned for development on approximately 20 acres of land located in Moapa, Nevada. As part of the JV agreement, CCE is expected to provide the land, which is subject to the execution of definitive agreements, completion of diligence, and satisfaction of customary conditions. According to the partners, the campus is situated adjacent to a remediated coal-fired power plant and will have access to existing utility infrastructure, including electric transmission, natural gas, fiber connectivity, water, and transportation corridors. The former coal mine is now operating as a 200MW battery energy storage facility. It is unclear whether the energy storage facility will serve the data center. Under the terms of the agreement, Jet.AI expects to commit approximately $10 million of capital over a two year period. The development of the data center is expected to cost approximately $500 million, comprising roughly $400 million of project debt and $100 million of equity. Timelines for the facility’s construction have not yet been shared. Jet.AI entered the data center market earlier this year when it announced it was pivoting away from developing AI solutions for the aviation industry. Founded in 2018, Jet.AI’s software segment features the B2C CharterGPT app, the Ava agentic booking AI, and the B2B Jet.AI Operator platform. Earlier this month , the company announced plans for 350-acre data center site in Winnipeg, Canada, as part of a JV with Consensus Core. Jet.AI and Consensus Core first announced plans to form a joint venture in late April. As well as the Midwestern site, the companies are targeting a second Canadian development, known as the Maritime project. The second site reportedly has 40MW of capacity immediately available, 100MW in the near term, and up to 1GW long term. More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 14 Jan 2026 CoreWeave shareholder files lawsuit alleging company mislead investors over ability to deliver compute Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 26 Nov 2025 AWS data center coming to Hobart, Indiana Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment Tags Choo Choo Express Clark County Jet.AI Joint Venture Moapa Nevada Comments