Two data center projects proposed near Phoenix, Arizona - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Two data center projects proposed near Phoenix, Arizona Takanock seeks to develop in the Grand Canyon State, while NTT revises previous campus plans January 19, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say Two data center projects have been proposed for the Phoenix area of Arizona. As reported by AzBex , the two projects - proposed by NTT Global Data Centers and Takanock - are located in Mesa and near the Luke Air Force Base, respectively. – Takanock Takanock takes on Air Force Base DigitalBridge-backed Takanock is looking to develop two data centers and a 700MW natural gas power plant at West Olive Avenue and North Bullard Avenue. The site is situated close to the Luke Air Force Base, which is 15 miles west of Phoenix. The base is a major training base of the Air Education and Training Command, and is a designated "superfund site" having been found to have a number of soil and groundwater contaminants. Dubbed Project Baccara, the development is for 160 acres of land, with the power plant set to occupy 23.7 acres of the site. Each data center is proposed to span roughly 1 million sq ft (92,905 sqm) and will have two stories. Construction is currently slated to begin in Q3 2026, with the first data center aimed to be online in Q1 2028 and the second in Q1 2030. EPCOR will handle water and sewer services. Takanock estimates it will bring 1,000 construction jobs to the area, and 200 permanent roles for the running of the site. Thus far, Takanock has submitted the Maricopa County Development Permit application and an application for the Certificate of Environmental Compatibility, as per a fact sheet for the project. According to Takanock, the company currently has four "active sites" in three states in the US, with 2.8GW of IT capacity and 5.3GW of generation capacity. Its website does not currently list any live data centers. The company raised $500m in June 2025 and is known to be developing in Northern Virginia . NTT GDC alters Mesa plans NTT, meanwhile, has revised its plans for its campus on Elliot Road in Mesa, Arizona. The project has been ongoing since August 2020 , though details weren't publicly shared until the following July . At the time, it was said to be a 240MW, 102-acre campus with seven data center buildings. The revision will see buildings six and seven combined into a single building spanning 195,400 sq ft (18,153 sqm), reducing the total number of buildings on the campus to six. In a submission, NTT said: "The proposed PH6 design will maintain the same building height as the existing buildings on campus. The building will remain a two-story data center, with two administrative blocks that will be South and East facing. This new orientation allows for enhanced facades along East Elliot Road and the Basin 114 Park." Corgan is in charge of the design of the campus, while Colliers Engineering & Design is the engineer. NTT is also seeking to develop another campus in Mesa, having acquired 173 acres on the northeast corner of Pecos and Crismon roads - just a few miles south of the Elliot Road campus - for a data center campus in March 2025 . Mesa is a city just east of Phoenix. Phoenix is a major data center hub, with the Mesa area home to Polish software firm Comarch as well as EdgeCore , Meta , Novva , Apple, CyrusOne , and NTT . Amazon is planning two campuses in Mesa , while landowner Pacific Proving is also planning to develop a large campus in the area. Across the rest of Phoenix, the likes of Stack , Stream , Prime , Aligned , Iron Mountain , Vantage , Compass , QTS , EdgeConneX , Expedient , and H5 are all present. Microsoft operates a cloud region outside the area. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 29 Jan 2026 New AI Growth Zone in North Lanarkshire, Scotland, could unlock 500MW of data center capacity Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 24 Feb 2026 SambaNova unveils SN50 AI chip, Intel partnership, and $350m fundraise Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Arizona Elliot Road Luke Air Force Base Maricopa County Mesa NTT NTT GDC Natural Gas Phoenix Project Baccara Takanock Comments