Prologis acquires land outside Cincinnati, Ohio, for potential data center - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Prologis acquires land outside Cincinnati, Ohio, for potential data center Company buys 141 acres in Trenton October 23, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Prologis has acquired a plot of land outside Cincinnati, Ohio, likely for a data center. Citing local property records, BizJournal reports that Prologis has acquired 141 acres in Butler County from the City of Trenton for $7.7 million. A render of a planned Prologis data center – Prologis The site, located around a mile south of downtown Trenton in the Trenton Industrial Park, is located off Woodsdale Road, east of Molson Coors’ Trenton Brewery. Trenton is around 30 miles north of downtown Cincinnati. Prologis confirmed the deal to BJ, which closed last week. The purchase agreement between Trenton and Prologis from October describes a data center 1 million square feet (92,903 sqm) in size. Earlier this year, Prologis was requesting that the city amend its zoning ordinance to include data centers and allow them to be located within its I-G General Industrial District zoning. Logistics and industrial real estate giant Prologis began expanding further into the data center sector in recent years. Many of the company’s data center developments to date have been focused on building out existing landholdings, but the firm has been acquiring greenfield sites as well. Prologis currently has 1.4GW of secured power for data centers in its pipeline, with another 1.6GW "in the advanced stages of procurement," the company has previously said . It claims it has another 1.5GW in the planning stage, and is targeting up to 10GW of capacity in the next ten years. The company has current and planned developments in Illinois , Virginia , Georgia , and Texas in the US, as well as Paris , France. The company previously had a development in the works in Indiana , but confirmed to DCD it is no longer moving forward. Though not a major data center market, the likes of H5, Flexential, DartPoints, DataBank, Lumen, and CyrusOne are present in Cincinnati. Elsewhere in Butler County, industrial development firm Logistix was last year granted planning approval for a data center project in Hamilton. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 29 Oct 2025 Sponsored Do it once, do it right Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 28 Oct 2025 Meta signs 600MW solar PPA with Engie in Texas Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Butler County Cincinnati Ohio Prologis Trenton Trenton Industrial Park Comments