$10 billion data center planned for southeast Fort Worth wants even more land Advertisement Advertisement Return to Homepage Top Stories: DOJ revives firing squads Golden orb ocean discovery Netanyahu cancer diagnosis $400K Maduro capture bet Israel-Lebanon ceasefire Oklahoma tornado ICE and Border Patrol funding Medical marijuana reclassification Navy secretary ousted Judge blocks Va. voting maps Developer Black Mountain is asking the Fort Worth City Council to approve rezoning of an additional 119 acres for inclusion in a development that includes a data center. The area is near Weston Gardens, bottom left, a family-owned botanical garden and event venue. (Amanda McCoy/amccoy@star-telegram.com) Developers in southeast Fort Worth are on their way to getting even more land for a planned $10 billion data center project that has already secured rezoning for roughly 400 acres . At the Fort Worth Zoning Commission meeting on Dec. 10, representatives from Black Mountain Power — a Fort Worth-based partnership of fossil fuel and mining companies — made their case to commissioners to get another 42.06 acres rezoned from agricultural use to light industrial use. The rezoning would affect the odd-numbered addresses between the 7200 and 7500 blocks of Anglin Drive off of LonStephenson Road, south of Interstate 20. Advertisement Advertisement Black Mountain Power has put in several applications to rezone areas for the data center project. In September, the Fort Worth City Council granted final zoning approval for an additional 119 acres of land. In June , it was 171 acres. In January , it was 141 acres. Throughout the year, Black Mountain has created a piecemeal transformation of the land centered among Forest Hill, Everman and Kennedale. Black Mountain Power held a community meeting with some residents who would be affected by the Anglin Drive rezoning, Bob Riley, a consultant with the Richardson-based company Halff who is working on behalf of Black Mountain, explained at the Dec. 10 meeting. Black Mountain has also held a meeting with the Fort Worth Water Department on Dec. 2, Riley said, to begin planning for the water needs of the entire complex. Advertisement Advertisement Residents have expressed fierce opposition to the data center project, which would sit directly next to Weston Gardens, a longtime Fort Worth outdoor sanctuary and nursery. Even with more than 400 acres rezoned for the project, Riley said at the meeting on Thursday that more applications are coming. The project does not yet have a final building plan. “How much bigger are we getting?” zoning commissioner Jacob Wurman asked Riley. “I don’t think we’ll get much bigger after the next one,” Riley replied. The motion was approved unanimously by the commission, and will now make its way to City Council. Riley wouldn’t specify to the Star-Telegram how many acres would be included in the next application. View comments About Our Ads Recommended articles QBs Carson Beck, Drew Allar were surprise NFL Draft selections for most. Here's what their paths look like for getting playing time Allar's selection has no impact whatsoever on the team's hope that Aaron Rodgers returns for 2026. As for Beck, among the first three QBs drafted, you could argue he is the winner in terms of surrounding pieces and potential immediate opportunity. Yahoo Sports No Wemby, no problem: 3 takeaways from the Spurs' Game 3 win over the Trail Blazers Here's how the Spurs took a 2-1 series lead without superstar Victor Wembanyama. Yahoo Sports Why Jermod McCoy's slide has gone from potential top-10 pick to last day of the NFL Draft Sources told Yahoo Sports that McCoy's knee also had a repair that included a "bone plug." The concern with the procedure is that over time, it can call for re-operation and the kind of chronic cartilage issues that end athletic careers. Yahoo Sports Wordle hints today for #1,771: Clues and answer for Saturday, April 25 Does Saturday's Wordle (#1,771) have you stumped? Here are some hints and the answer. Yahoo Tech WWE SmackDown results, grades (April 24): Jacob Fatu stalls for Roman Reigns; Danhausen wins again This week's "WWE SmackDown" kicked off with Jacob Fatu explaining how beating Roman Reigns — the new WWE champion — could be his ticket to success. Uncrowned Celtics-76ers takeaways: Jayson Tatum delivers dagger 3, haunts Philadelphia once more The Celtics superstar, who played just 16 regular-season games after missing most of the season with a ruptured Achilles tendon, is a playoff hero once again. Yahoo Sports Oklahoma softball sets NCAA single-season HR record with 162 homers The Sooners reset their own mark from 2021, now surpassing it by three home runs. Yahoo Sports Bronny James scores first NBA playoff points, with some help from LeBron, in Lakers' win over Rockets Bronny got a screen and an assist from his father on his first two baskets of the postseason. Yahoo Sports Victor Wembanyama ruled out for Spurs' Game 3 vs. Trail Blazers Victor Wembanyama left Tuesday's game with a concussion. Yahoo Sports Eero gets FCC's green light to continue importing new consumer routers in the U.S. Eero is the latest consumer router brand to receive FCC approval under its "Covered List," allowing it to continue importing foreign-made routers to sell in the U.S. Yahoo Tech Advertisement