Stack plans 1GW campus in Stafford County, Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Stack plans 1GW campus in Stafford County, Virginia Company takes over Stafford Technology Campus from Peterson Companies January 17, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Stack Infrastructure is developing a 1GW data center campus in Stafford County, Virginia. The company this week announced the Stafford Technology Campus (STC); a 500-acre data center development. – Stafford Technology LC | Stafford County The company’s announcement says the 1.1GW site will house up to 19 data centers and six 300MW substations from Dominion Energy (though the company’s website says up to 23 buildings). Timelines for development weren’t shared. “STC reflects Stack’s commitment to setting the standard for responsible data center development while delivering scalable, resilient infrastructure to meet the evolving needs of our clients,” said Matt VanderZanden, COO, Stack Americas. “By combining strategic site planning with conscientious initiatives, we ensure our projects drive meaningful economic and environmental benefits, fostering long-term partnerships and sustainable growth.” Stafford County lies to the south of Prince William County and southeast of Fauquier County, on the Potomac River. It is not a county known for its data center developments, though in recent years, it has lowered taxes for data center equipment. The site was previously owned by real estate firm Peterson Companies, which first filed to rezone the land on the east side of US Route 1 at I-95 for data centers in 2023 . Hoping to develop up to 23 buildings in the Falmouth area of the county with a total of 5.8 million sq ft of floor space (538,838 sqm), the company gained zoning approval in September . Construction is due to start in 2025, with the first phase set to go live in 2027. “We are proud to have played a pivotal role in the development of Stafford Technology Campus through our land sale to Stack Infrastructure,” said Taylor Chess, senior managing director of development at Peterson Companies. “By securing entitlements and utility commitments, Peterson Companies helped lay the foundation for this transformative economic development project, which aligns with our shared commitment to responsible siting and sustainability. As our second major data center land development in Stafford County, this milestone highlights our focus on supporting innovative projects that drive local economic growth. We look forward to continuing our collaboration with local and state governments to pursue opportunities that further enhance this dynamic market.” Adam Cook, Peterson’s managing director for development, previously told DCD Stafford County appealed because the company had an existing landbank there and the county had the right mix of utility and technology infrastructure to support its plans. Amazon also has a campus planned in Stafford. After previously investing in T5, IPI launched Stack in 2019 after merging several T5 data centers with three Infomart facilities acquired the previous year into a new operator. Today the company has some 4GW in operation or development globally, with another 6GW planned in the future. Across the US the company has data centers in Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas Fort Worth, New Albany, Northern Virginia, Phoenix, Portland, and Silicon Valley. Founded in 1965, Peterson is a privately owned developer of office, retail, industrial, self-storage, and residential properties. While not largely known for its data center developments, the company has previously partnered with Stack Infrastructure for a campus in Prince William County’s Manassas. More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 28 Jan 2026 Corning, Meta sign $6bn fiber deal to support US data center boom Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in Colocation & Wholesale NTT Global Data Centers Guide to India data center expansion 11 Feb 2026 Glasgow City Council taps DataVita for compute and storage services in Scotland 04 Mar 2026 TikTok experiences issues at US data center, but avoids full outage Tags Virginia Stack Stafford County Stack Infrastructure Stafford Technology Campus Peterson Companies Comments