High Point - DC BLOX Skip to content High Point Data Center North Carolina Colocation to Connect Globally Schedule a Meeting Type: Land for Future Colocation, Hyperscale, Single-Tenant North Carolina Tier III Colocation DC BLOX High Point will be located on Sheraton Court near the intersection of Routes 40 and 73 and off Piedmont Parkway. The facility will be less than 10 miles from the Piedmont Triad International Airport. The DC BLOX High Point data center will serve the need for reliable Tier III-designed data centers for businesses in the Piedmont Triad area including High Point, Greensboro and Winston-Salem, NC. Our data centers serve every industry, though DC BLOX often attracts healthcare, financial services, university and research institutions, manufacturing, media companies, local and state government, and IT managed service providers The new data center will join the interconnected data center fabric of DC BLOX’s sites in the Southeastern, US. Customers will have access to DC BLOX’s full range of colocation , connectivity and cloud storage solutions, including private, 100Gbps+ capacity network access to carriers, public cloud providers and Internet Exchanges. High Point Data Center Site Plan High Point Colocation Features Building Specifications Connectivity Security Power Cooling Building Specifications Up to 54,000 sq. ft. of data hall space 6,700 sq. ft. of tenant space with conference rooms, workspaces and other amenities Pre-cast concrete shell with reinforced concrete slab 150 mph wind-rated structure Turn-key, build-to-suit and high-density options Connectivity Private, optical connectivity across the Southeast – 100% SLA Carrier-neutral with virtual cross-connects to carriers in any DC BLOX data center including: AT&T, Comcast, Charter/Spectrum, Cogent, Zayo, CenturyLink and more 100G+ optical connectivity powered by Ciena Low-latency to internet exchanges = hundreds of carrier connections Private connectivity to public cloud providers Software-defined network (SDN) for rapid provisioning Security Enhanced security built to CUI (Controlled Unclassified Information) standards Perimeter fencing 24x7x365 manned security desk Vehicle gate Campus-wide CCTV Collateral and CMMC capable Power Up to 10MW critical load N+1 generator backup N+1 UPS systems Dual UPS feeds to all cabinets 24-hour on-site fuel storage Cooling N+1 cooling Hot aisle containment High efficiency Direct Expansion (DX) Schedule a Meeting Complete this form to get more information about the DC BLOX High Point data center facility. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. First Name * Last Name * Email * Phone * Company * Keep me informed about DC BLOX Keep me informed about DC BLOX Website Submit SMS Text Messaging By providing a telephone number and submitting this form you are consenting to be contacted by SMS text message. Message and data rates may apply. Message frequency may vary. Reply Help for more information. You can reply STOP to opt-out of further messaging. Read DC BLOX’s Privacy Policy . Corporate Headquarters: 1040 Crown Pointe Pkwy Suite 800 Atlanta, Georgia 30338 LinkedIn YouTube Facebook Instagram X Offerings Hyperscale Data Centers Cable Landing Stations Colocation Connectivity Dark Fiber Data Center Map Company About DC BLOX Leadership News Careers Partner Portal Service Portal Get in Touch Send a Message Request a Quote 877.590.1684 Terms of Use Acceptable Use Shared Responsibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Consent Preferences Consent Preferences