Abilene's Data Center advances swiftly with 5,000+ workers Skip to content by: Mariah Williams Posted: Sep 17, 2025 / 07:35 PM CDT Updated: Sep 18, 2025 / 09:08 AM CDT SHARE ABILENE, Texas ( KTAB/KRBC ) – Construction projects have popped up all over town, and things at the Abilene Data Center are well underway. It was January 2025 when it was announced that Abilene would be the center of the Stargate project, and now, progress is moving quickly. Dichelle Burrus with DPR Construction is one of the project leads for the site. She said once the idea came to the Key City, they immediately got to work on the large-scale project. “Probably four or five years ago, the folks at Lancium really wanted to bring some new industry here to the Abilene market. The Abilene area is honestly very rich in power and energy that could be supplied to different markets,” Burus explained. “480,000 cubic yards of concrete — you assume kind of an average house foundation slab is usually around 80 to 90 cubic yards — That means we have placed the equivalent of 6,100 house foundations out here so far, and we’re not even done.” What seems to be one of the largest site data center sites will use many resources, including chillers to cool the center and a gas turbine power plant for power. Burus explained exactly how the plant will use water and energy to run. “Since the buildings are fed from the substation and then the backup power is provided by the gas turbine plant, it’s not like you have tons of generators that are providing the power either,” Burus said. “In terms of water, it’s a closed loop system. So once the system is filled and operational, that’s it. It’s maybe a little like maintenance tap here and there every once while, but it is a closed-circulated system, so it shouldn’t be a major drain on the local water system once it’s up and operational.” The manpower to make it happen matches the size of the project, with nearly 6,000 people on the site daily, and Burus said they are still seeking more. “We’re still onboarding for construction, around 200 people at a minimum in a week. It kind of ebbs and flows on the work that’s going on and what we need. Right now, our current manpower projections are showing that we’ll probably be around 8,000 people,” Burrus shared. The construction company is contracted to finish eight buildings; the last building is set to be finished by the end of next year. Add as preferred source on Google ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews Sports Illustrated Phillies’ Release of Taijuan Walker Cements His Unfortunate … Here are Some Funny and Weird NFL Draft Odds I Unearthed Seismic Man City vs. Arsenal Clash Makes U.S. History, … How Real Madrid Can Avoid Giving Barcelona Dreaded … UNC’s Henri Veesaar Makes Final Decision on NBA Draft Football School or Basketball School? The NIL Era … MLB Weekend Schedule and Updated Standings: First … Dianna Russini Hosted a Pool Party at NFL Meetings … View All Sports Illustrated Sports Illustrated Phillies’ Release of Taijuan Walker Cements His Unfortunate … Here are Some Funny and Weird NFL Draft Odds I Unearthed Seismic Man City vs. Arsenal Clash Makes U.S. History, … How Real Madrid Can Avoid Giving Barcelona Dreaded … UNC’s Henri Veesaar Makes Final Decision on NBA Draft Football School or Basketball School? The NIL Era … MLB Weekend Schedule and Updated Standings: First … Dianna Russini Hosted a Pool Party at NFL Meetings … View All Sports Illustrated Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now Big Country Daily News SIGN UP NOW Daily Crime Reports Crime Reports: Baby Alive doll reported stolen during … Crime Reports: Fentanyl charges make up most of Abilene … Crime Reports: Tires slashed on multiple vehicles … View All Daily Crime Reports BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks Tweets by @KTABTV