Stream files for 1.3 million sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Stream files for 1.3 million sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia Company planning nine-building, 240MW campus in Douglas County November 28, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Stream Data Centers is planning a major new campus outside Atlanta, Georgia. Site of Stream's planned Atlanta West campus – Google Maps Stream, through SDC ATLA, LLC, has filed to develop a large new campus in Douglas County, to the west of Atlanta. Located along Jason Industrial Parkway and N Baggett Road, the company aims to develop nine data center buildings and two substations, according to a Developments of Regional Impact application filed with the Georgia Department of Community Affairs this week. Each data center is set to span 149,300 sq ft (13,870 sqm), for a total of around 1.34 million sq ft (124,490 sqm). Project timelines were not shared. On its website, Stream lists a planned campus known as Atlanta West. The 246-acre site could offer 240MW, with the potential to reach 280MW within 24 months of lease execution. Founded in 1999, Stream is part of Stream Realty Partners. The company’s footprint extends across Texas, Illinois, Minnesota, Colorado, Ohio, Virginia, Iowa, Oklahoma, Georgia, Alabama, and California. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Hong Kong: Asia’s connectivity hub 24 Apr 2026 Lebanon's gov't plans to transform warehouse into National Data Center Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 24 Feb 2026 Virginia's data centers may need to prove green credentials to qualify for tax breaks Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Georgia Stream Data Centers Douglas County Atlanta Comments