Dalton-Whitfield Joint Development Authority moves forward on deal for data center | Dalton Daily Citizen Home News Sports Opinion Community Classifieds E-Edition Obituaries Magazine Bookshelf Home Subscriptions Newsletter signup E-Edition News Local News In Other News Obituaries Sports Local Sports State Sports National Sports Lifestyles Magazine Bookshelf Community Births Engagements Opinion Columns Editorials Letters to the Editor Classifieds Public Notices Georgia Notices Services About Us Contact Us Dalton-Whitfield Joint Development Authority moves forward on deal for data center Published 8:30 am Saturday, September 27, 2025 By Charles Oliver | charles.oliver@daltoncitizen.com 1/3 Swipe or click to see more Core Scientific purchased the parcels of property on Old Tilton Road in December 2024 for $3,600,000. (Whitfield County) 2/3 Swipe or click to see more The location of the proposed data center is to the southeast of Dalton, near the Murray County line. (Whitfield County) 3/3 Swipe or click to see more “The tax abatements are earned through a scoring matrix that we have, that looks at jobs and investments and wages and things like that, to help determine if they qualify for those,” said Dalton-Whitfield Joint Development Authority Executive Director Carl Campbell. (File) The Dalton-Whitfield Joint Development Authority (JDA) on Tuesday voted to formalize tax abatements for a new, state-of-the-art artificial intelligence (AI) data center. The decision paves the way for a roughly $200 million investment by Core Scientific, a Bellevue, Washington-based company already familiar with the area’s digital landscape. The unanimous vote by JDA board members approved bonds-for-title agreements with Core Scientific, a mechanism that, while not involving the issuance of actual bonds, allows the company to qualify for tax abatements on the equipment, buildings, and land associated with the project. As JDA Executive Director Carl Campbell explained, the arrangement is a standard practice in Georgia, where cities and counties are prohibited from providing direct tax breaks. The transfer of title to the JDA during the life of the deal, he said, ensures the company delivers on its promises of job creation and investment. Core Scientific’s expansion plans involve a two-pronged approach. The company will convert one of its existing data centers, previously used for crypto mining, to an AI-focused facility. The second will be torn down to help make way for the new building. The new data center will be built on 173.3 acres on Old Tilton Road, a site that the Whitfield County Board of Commissioners rezoned for heavy manufacturing back in March. An abatement matrix developed by the JDA, which considers factors such as investment, job creation, and median salaries, played a key role in the board’s decision. Campbell highlighted that the project “checks off a lot of boxes” in that matrix. The smaller, converted facility will receive a 40% abatement, while the larger, new facility will get a 50% abatement. These abatements are set for the JDA’s standard 10-year term, though Campbell noted that the high-tech equipment’s short lifespan means it will likely be replaced before the decade is up, at which point the abatement would expire. “That equipment has a pretty short life,” he said. “It will probably be replaced before that 10 years is up, and if it does, that abatement will go away.” The project is projected to create approximately 75 jobs across all of Core Scientific’s facilities in the county, with annual salaries ranging from $60,000 to $90,000. Email newsletter signup Sign up for our daily email newsletter “These are not low-skilled jobs,” Campbell said. “They pay well.” Campbell noted that the skills these jobs require are not typically used in the floorcovering industry, so the data center won’t be competing with those firms for workers. At a February Dalton-Varnell-Whitfield County Planning Commission meeting on the rezoning, several residents expressed concern about the data center’s potential impact on local electrical rates. Dalton Utilities Chief Operating Officer Mark Buckner shed light on the possible impact at a May meeting of the League of Women Voters of the Dalton Area. Buckner revealed that the utility’s peak load has nearly doubled since the introduction of data centers, skyrocketing from about 250 megawatts to 476 megawatts last year. To manage this dramatic increase in demand, Dalton Utilities has implemented measures to protect its existing customer base. Buckner stated that the utility now bills the larger of the two existing data centers on a weekly basis, with a power bill that averages between $1 million and $1.5 million each week. He emphasized that the utility’s existing generating capacity is reserved for “hometown residential, industrial and commercial customers.” The power for the data centers, he explained, is bought on the open market, with the companies providing the collateral and paying the full price for those purchases. You Might Like Local News Jensen named Toast of the Town honoree Local Sports CHRISTIAN HERITAGE SCHOOL’S MIKE ROBY NAMED GHSA’S 7A-D1 ATHLETIC DIRECTOR OF THE YEAR Local News Dalton’s ‘Spring CLEAN’ off to a strong start Local News Dalton Daily Citizen adjusting print schedule to three days per week eEdition View Today's Paper Most Popular 1 2 3 4 5 Sections Home News Obituaries Opinion Sports Community Lifestyles Press release Services e-Edition Newsletter signup Subscriptions Classifieds Georgia Public Notices Our Company About Us Contact Us Our Partners © 2026 Dalton Daily Citizen. Privacy Policy Terms of Service