New $6 billion AVAIO Digital data center coming to Brandon MS BUSINESS New $6 billion data center to be built in Brandon, Mississippi. What to know Ross Reily Mississippi Clarion Ledger Aug. 19, 2025 Updated Aug. 20, 2025, 8:41 a.m. CT AVAIO Digital is building a $6 billion data center campus in Brandon, Mississippi, expected to create numerous jobs. The campus will utilize sustainable design features like water-efficient cooling and rooftop solar. Mississippi's reliable energy infrastructure and economic development incentives played a key role in attracting AVAIO Digital. The project is part of a larger trend of data center development in Mississippi, including recent projects by Compass Datacenters and Amazon Web Services. AVAIO Digital, a Connecticut-based developer and operator of sustainable data centers, has announced a new $6 billion data center campus at the East Metropolitan Center Business and Industrial Park in Brandon. AVAIO Digital’s new Brandon data center campus will be named AVAIO Digital Taurus and will provide new workforce development opportunities in the state while also providing a variety of jobs for the Greater Jackson-area’s workforce. Those include at least 60 direct, high-tech jobs and hundreds of indirect jobs ranging from construction to other related industries. According to a statement, the campus will feature high-speed, low-latency connectivity options, including direct access to multiple long-haul fiber routes nearby that link seamlessly to major data center hubs such as Dallas and Atlanta. The intelligent sustainable design features include details like water-efficient cooling, rainwater recapture and rooftop solar and cooling system economization to minimize power demands. Once fully equipped, the facility will support computer server, networking and data storage technologies that power cloud computing and artificial intelligence applications. Entergy Mississippi will provide reliable power for the project. The Mississippi Development Authority approved AVAIO Digital Taurus for the state’s Data Center Enterprises tax exemption. MDA also previously provided assistance through the Site Development Grant Program to help develop the East Metropolitan Business and Industrial Park. Rankin County and the city of Brandon are assisting with the project, as well. “Securing a multi-billion-dollar investment like AVAIO Digital’s $6 billion data center campus doesn’t happen by chance — it’s the result of Mississippi’s laser-focused strategy to attract world-class companies through our strong economic development resources, including work-ready employees and shovel-ready sites," said Bill Cork, executive director of the Mississippi Development Authority. "Thanks to the leadership of Gov. Reeves and our Legislature, Mississippi continues to win transformative billion-dollar projects like AVAIO that will shape the future of our economy.” AVAIO Digital expects construction of the data center complex to be complete during the first half of 2027. “The Greater Jackson area is poised to become a new hub for cloud computing and AI development, and we are delighted to partner with the city of Brandon to make a significant investment in expanding the region’s digital and energy infrastructure," Mark McComiskey, AVAIO Digital CEO, said in a statement. "Mississippi provides a unique opportunity for hyperscalers to rapidly expand their digital presence in close proximity to established data center markets in a highly sustainable way." Rankin County previewed announcement In an interview with the Clarion Ledger earlier this year, Rankin First made the case that one of the biggest announcements of the 2025 economic development year in Mississippi would be upcoming. That came on the heels of the announcement that Dallas-based Compass Datacenters, a multinational data center developer, is locating its next hyperscale data center campus in Meridian at a reported cost of $10 billion. Last year, there was the announcement that Amazon Web Services will occupy two Madison County locations for a historic buildout for hyperscale development centers at a cost of $10 billion. It all goes back to available energy That leads back to the discussion of the potential of recruiting data center-type development into Rankin County. “Mississippi continues to lead the southeast region into a new economic and innovation era, with the announcement of AVAIO Digital’s data center hub in Brandon," Haley Fisackerly, Entergy Mississippi CEO, said in a statement about the new project. "The development proves why Entergy’s investment in reliable, clean and efficient power generation is essential to attracting new business and the state’s growth. Thanks to the Mississippi Development Authority and Rankin First Economic Development Authority for a partnership that is allowing us to meet our customers’ needs while supporting sustainability and economic growth.” The one thing that both AWS and Compass have talked about is the ability of the state's energy companies to deliver at a breakneck speed. In the case of Compass, it has been Mississippi Power, but for AWS, at least at the Madison campuses, it has been Entergy. "Everything in economic development is so infrastructure driven these days," Garrett Wright executive director of the Rankin First Economic Development Authority, previosly told the Clarion Ledger. "They are already at the table, but we have to provide solutions to be able to win projects that are on the table. If you look at the most successful communities across the nation, they have prime sits that are ready to go, and their utility partners are sitting there at the table investing in those sites and having them ready to go. In today's world, that is what we need. That is happening already in Rankin County, but I want to elevate that any further." When Compass Data Center CEO AJ Byers took the stage to celebrate his company locating its next hyperscale data center campus in Lauderdale County in January, he lauded the state's ability to move quickly on the energy front as "The Mississippi Advantage" Ross Reily is a writer for the Clarion Ledger, part of the USA TODAY Network. He can be reached at rreily@gannett.com or 601-573-2952. You can follow him on the X platform, formerly known as Twitter @GreenOkra1. Featured Weekly Ad