NKY officials hear plan for 2,000-acre 'hyperscale data center complex' Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 76 ° Sat 76 ° Sun 73 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY NKY officials hear plan for 2,000-acre 'hyperscale data center complex' by Daniel Zivian, WKRC Wed, March 25, 2026 at 10:22 PM Updated Wed, March 25, 2026 at 10:23 PM 5 VIEW ALL PHOTOS Mason County officials got their first detailed look at a proposed hyperscale data center complex during a special meeting on Wednesday, as a major tech company quietly pursues land deals that some property owners have refused. (WKRC) Comment on this story 3 Comment Share story Share topics: Data center Hyperscale Mason County Kentucky Technology Construction jobs Property owners Industrial development MAYSVILLE, Ky. (WKRC) - Mason County officials got their first detailed look at a proposed hyperscale data center complex during a special meeting on Wednesday, as a major tech company quietly pursues land deals that some property owners have refused. The plan presented at Maysville Community College calls for a six-building complex spanning more than 2,000 acres. The unnamed Fortune 50 company that would build and operate the site has contracts “ready to go” with property owners, according to information presented at the meeting. Mason County officials got their first detailed look at a proposed hyperscale data center complex during a special meeting on Wednesday, as a major tech company quietly pursues land deals that some property owners have refused. (WKRC) Tanner Nichols of FBT Gibbons, an attorney for the applicants, told the joint planning commission the project would be among the largest in Kentucky history and argued that communities are increasingly being asked to accommodate massive data center developments. “Proposed data centers are popping up all over the country, and I don't think most local communities—including Mason County—could have ever anticipated that they would need such large areas to accommodate hyperscale data centers,” Nichols said. Nichols also sought to address anticipated criticism, repeatedly pointing to the county’s own master plan as justification for the proposal. He said the project would create 2,000 construction jobs and 400 jobs after completion. He said the company would cover 100% of the project cost, which he put at more than $555 million, and said tax revenue would go back into schools and infrastructure. Outside the meeting, adjoining property owner Melissa Humphries reviewed renderings that showed her home across from the proposed complex. She said she is not confident in the plans, including a proposed natural barrier intended to block views of the server buildings. “I would rather look at the country setting that I look at now—which is looking over and seeing cows grazing and wildlife coming to the pond—instead of looking at a big ol' berm with trees that are going to take years to grow,” Humphries said. “Our place is country, and you're going to turn it into an industrial area, and the ones left are going to have to live with this for the rest of our lives.” During the meeting, a lawyer representing Mason County residents attempted to cross-examine Nichols, raising concerns about having to communicate through an attorney for the city-county industrial development authority, which is applying on behalf of the corporation. Comment with Bubbles READ THE COMMENTS (3) The company has not been publicly identified because of nondisclosure agreements. Trending Local cafe says it may close next month after being notified by its landlord The business has operated for 25 years. Child fighting for her life after slushie found to be contaminated with meth, fentanyl The child was taken to a hospital for emergency treatment and remained in critical condition. Mayor: Ex-police chief asked for $7.5 million to resign After months of uncertainty and investigation, Cincinnati Police Chief Teresa Theetge has been fired. Judge announces verdict for Cincinnati father in dog mauling death trial A Roselawn father has been found guilty on all counts in the dog-mauling death of his toddler daughter. Opening date set for Tri-State's next Wawa location The store, located on Montgomery Road, will open Thursday, May 14. NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 4 What will it take to get the NFL Draft to Cincinnati? 5 Former Cincinnati Police chief's controversial CPS board visit cited in dismissal letter 3 Wanted man dead after SWAT situation in Cheviot 4 Northern Kentucky park opens new fishing pier