Aligned looks to develop three more data centers at Quantum Frederick park in Maryland - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Aligned looks to develop three more data centers at Quantum Frederick park in Maryland Company files to build another 1.1 million sq ft feet at TPG’s megapark May 23, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Officials in Frederick County, Maryland, have given Aligned the initial green light to develop more data centers at the Quantum Frederick campus. As reported by the Frederick News-Post , the Frederick County Planning Commission recommended approval of Aligned’s site plan for three more buildings at its portion of the 2,100-acre Quantum Frederick campus. The company currently has one facility in development there. – Aligned The company is requesting approval for three additional buildings, totaling 1,149,000 sq ft (106,746 sqm), at the Aligned Critical Digital Infrastructure Facility located on a 74.89-acre site at 5601 Manor Woods Road. County staff said it had no objections to approval. Aligned broke ground on Building 1 (also known as IAD04) at the site in February . The facility will offer 72MW. The company has said that the four-building campus could reach 264MW. TPG Real Estate and Quantum Loophole have been planning and developing a 2,100-acre gigawatt-scale data center park since 2021 . However, Quantum Loophole has since been removed from the project , with TPG now becoming the sole developer of the park. As Quantum’s first tenant, Aligned planned to build 3.3 million sq ft (306,580 sqm) of data center capacity at the park. The operator briefly pulled out of plans to develop the campus in mid-2023 after only being granted a provisional exemption for up to 70MW of diesel generators. However, Aligned told DCD in May last year that it planned on moving forward with the stalled data center after regulatory changes, with Maryland amending its regulations around backup generators and easing restrictions for data center firms. Aligned will be joined by data centers from Rowan Digital Infrastructure , which is developing 11 buildings across three individual sites within the Quantum Park. Amazon is also set to occupy at least part of the quantum park, filing an air quality permit to deploy 99 generators at an upcoming data center site in the park, totaling more than 258MW of capacity. It’s not clear if Amazon is leasing data centers from either of Aligned or Rowan, developing its own, or a combination of the two. Subscribe to our daily newsletters Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter series. More in Construction & Site Selection Preventing multimillion dollar data center losses through reporting 16 Mar 2026 Canadian data center company Virtual Grid launches modular prototype Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in Colocation & Wholesale NTT Global Data Centers Guide to India data center expansion 05 Feb 2026 Local authorities in Ashville, Ohio, deny annexation request for data center project 20 Nov 2025 Unisys sells data center outside Minneapolis, Minnesota Tags Adamstown Aligned Frederick County Maryland Quantum Frederick Project TPG Real Estate Comments