Google purchases land for data center in Putnam County, West Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Google purchases land for data center in Putnam County, West Virginia Gets approval for multi-billion-dollar "high-impact development project" March 27, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say Google is set to develop a data center in Putnam County, West Virginia. Announced by Governor Patrick Morrisey, the search giant has purchased land in the county and received approval for a multi-billion-dollar "High Impact Development Project." – Getty Images The project remains in early stages, and Google representatives will meet with local officials to continue discussions. Details about the size of the land parcel acquired, its exact location, and potential data center capacity that could be developed have not been shared. Google will cover 100 percent of the electricity needed to power the facility, and the project is expected to generate thousands of construction jobs and hundreds of full-time positions. “Google’s decision to come to West Virginia is a strong signal that our state is competing and winning for the jobs and industries of the future,” said Governor Patrick Morrisey. “This is exactly the kind of opportunity we are working to bring here – one that creates jobs, strengthens infrastructure, and positions West Virginia for long-term growth.” “We’re excited to share that Google has purchased land in Putnam County, West Virginia, for a new data center campus,” said Clay Allsop, regional head of data center public affairs for Google. “We are early in the process, and substantial work remains, but we are appreciative of the strong business environment created by Governor Morrisey to provide a pathway for projects of this scale. We look forward to continued partnership with the Governor and local leaders in Putnam County on this opportunity here in West Virginia.” Putnam County is located in western West Virginia between Charleston and Huntington. It is next to Mason County, where the 8GW Monarch Compute Campus is being developed by Nscale. Google is also developing a campus in Botetourt County, Virginia , that lies on the border with West Virginia. Google plans to construct three data center buildings, each spanning around 300,000 sq ft (27,870 sqm), along with three substations and a 28,000 sq ft (2,600 sqm) office building at the site. More in Cloud & Hyperscale Accelerating hyperscale deployments in the AI era 29 Oct 2025 AI cloud firm Lambda targets data center deployment in Kansas City, Missouri Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 28 Oct 2025 Groups sue to stall data center project in Doña Ana County, New Mexico Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach Tags Clay Allsop Google Patrick Morrisey Putnam County West Virginia Comments