900MW data center campus proposed outside Macon, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 900MW data center campus proposed outside Macon, Georgia Plans filed for Bolingbroke Technology Campus April 10, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A 900MW data center campus is being proposed in Georgia. The Bolingbroke Technology Campus – Bolingbroke Technology Center Bolingbroke Technology Center, LLC., this week filed a Development of Regional Impact application with the Georgia Department of State Affairs for a project known as the Bolingbroke Technology Campus. The $5.8 billion campus is set to be housed in Monroe County, around 15 miles northwest of Macon. The 900-acre site is located on largely undeveloped land along US Highway 41 (aka Dixie Highway), Wadley Road, and I-475. Full details haven’t been shared, but the project is set to consist of nine buildings spanning a total of 5.4 million sq ft (501,675 sqm), as well as multiple substations from Central Georgia EMC. The site is due to be built out in three phases, completing in 2029, 2031, and 2033. A website has been set up for the project; the listed site plan suggests the campus will feature six single-story data centers offering 100MW each and three two-story facilities offering 200MW each. Current owners of the site are listed as Ingram Timber Ent, and Henry Davis Properties, LLC. The company behind Bolingbroke Technology Center, LLC isn’t known at this point. A public meeting for the project is planned for next week in Forsyth. Subscribe to our daily newsletters Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter series. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 15 Jan 2026 Meta buys land adjacent to Los Lunas campus in New Mexico, possible expansion - report Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 30 Jan 2026 20MW off-grid data center planned outside Salt Lake City, Utah Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Bolingbroke Technology Campus Bolingbroke Technology Center Georgia Macon Monroe County Comments