Tucker County: "Yellowstone of the East" or Appalachia’s "Cancer Valley"? by Amelia Jaycen A beaver pond near Freeland Boardwalk Trail at Canaan Valley National Wildlife Refuge. ( Frank Ceravalo , Public Domain ) In Tucker County, West Virginia, two towns with populations of about 600 each are nestled next to the largest high-elevation wetland valley east of the Mississippi. After a long history of coal mining and logging, these tiny mountain towns found a way to reinvent themselves by creating a thriving arts district and promoting the stunning local natural landscape. Now, the area is at risk of backtracking into heavy pollution, severe health risks, and environmental damage. Threats of haphazard development, including a proposed data center complex, ignore decades of local expertise. While all development involves some risks of environmental harm and human health impacts, intentional siting and implementation can make a difference. Citizens in Tucker County have well-researched ideas about where to site projects to benefit business and minimize harm to plants, animals, and people—and they want a voice. “It’s long frustrated me that West Virginia has the natural resources that other states only wish they had—amazing mountains, amazing scenery—and yet they seem to want to shave off all the mountains, extract the minerals, mine the landscape,” meteorologist David Carroll said, in an interview for the Steady State Herald . “And then this power plant proposal is just an insult to that entire area and the people that live there.” A recent push to develop U.S. AI capabilities at all costs has emboldened West Virginia lawmakers. Legislation recently passed in the West Virginia House paves the way for data center development with zero input from locals. The pollution coming with it could be deadly for small communities without access to major hospitals. Situated upwind of a biodiversity hotspot, it will imperil species and unravel ecosystems already reeling from climate change. Yellowstone of the East Tucker County draws visitors from around the globe, and its unique wilderness features have earned it the nickname “Yellowstone of the East.” Some 8,400 acres of wetlands comprise the second-largest inland freshwater wetland complex in the United States. The county hosts flora and fauna that are globally rare, including thirteen rare vegetation communities and more than 26 rare and protected species . It has more than 2,200 acres of rare conifer swamps and red spruce forests. A late winter sunrise at Canaan Valley National Wildlife Refuge. ( Ken Sturm/USFWS , Public Domain ) Canaan Valley National Wildlife Refuge, located in Tucker County, was established in 1994 as the nation’s 500 th designated wildlife refuge. It has since grown to encompass 16,628 acres. Most of Tucker County is located within Monongahela National Forest, which encompasses nearly 1 million acres managed by the U.S. Forest Service. Tucker County is a biodiversity hotspot, a designation given to areas with high “species richness” (number of species), endemic species (found nowhere else), and a large number of threatened and endangered species. As usual, these species are imperiled by human economic activity . For example, a planned four-lane highway project would cut through the middle of the Blackwater River watershed and Monongahela National Forest. The construction would irreparably destroy habitats, imperil species, compromise wilderness values, and corrupt renowned scenery. It would also disturb old mine tunnels that would collapse and pollute the rivers with acid mine drainage. As a result, the Blackwater River was listed on the 2024 list of “endangered rivers.” Locals have proposed an alternative, northern route that would decrease the extent of environmental damage. So far, they haven’t gotten confirmation that developers will take their expertise into account. Locals have capitalized on the outdoor recreation industry to keep the valley community alive. Tourists from Washington, D.C., Baltimore, and northern Virginia flock to the area to experience the wildlife refuge, two state parks, and the Dolly Sods Wilderness, plus two Alpine ski resorts and one Nordic ski area . The Blackwater River is known for its first-class whitewater adventures and a spectacular 62-foot waterfall. Canaan Valley Resort State Park has 47 ski trails and a golf course, and underwent a $34 million renovation in 2013. Winter in Tucker County is particularly popular. The annual snowfall and frosty cold of this unique West Virginia valley is almost as rare as the plant and animal species. Canaan Valley has an “average snowfall higher than any large city” in the United States, according to NOAA scientists Christoph Vogel and Bob Leffler. The county encompasses a “frost hollow,” a topographically ideal setup for trapping cold air in the valley, resulting in extremely cold temperatures and frequent frosts almost year-round. On January 22, 2025, Canaan Valley recorded the lowest temperature in the lower 48 states (-28 degrees Fahrenheit). Vogel and Leffler note, “Canaan Valley’s ‘cash crop’ may indeed be its climate.” Data Center Development Seems Secret by Design Recently, Alan Tomson, mayor of the town of Davis, got a call from a concerned county citizen who ran across a filing for an air-quality permit. She asked if he knew anything about the large gas-fired power plant to be built in town. Tomson hadn’t heard of it. He called the mayor of Thomas, three miles down the road, who “was equally unaware.” Tomson also called the president of the Tucker County Commission: “They also had no inkling anything like this was going on, that it was even a possibility.” Local leadership was completely blindsided. “I think a responsible business considering anything like this would have reached out to the local community and started some kind of a dialogue,” Tomson said. “This is a big power plant—anywhere from 1,000 to 1,600 megawatts—with a large capacity that will not be connected to the grid, that might only be supplying data centers.” Once locals were aware, scrutiny of the air-quality permit filed by Fundamental Data to build a large gas power plant revealed a series of concerns. Located less than a mile from an elementary school and residential areas, and upwind of the bowl-shaped Canaan Valley, the power plant’s emissions are a threat to residents and wildlife. But residents have had to deduce most of the details with painstaking citizen science, because the air-quality permit application is so heavily redacted. A map created by a member of the citizen group Tucker United showing the proposed power plant location in relation to the towns of Thomas and Davis. (Satellite imagery from Google Earth) Claiming confidential business information, the company removed key information needed to model how far its emissions would spread. The proposal is “the most heavily redacted document I’ve ever seen,” one resident said in a video produced by Tucker United , the citizen group locals formed to try to get answers. Fundamental Data has barely responded to the community’s requests for information. A company representative told the Wall Street Journal it plans to build the largest data center complex in the world, up to 10,000 acres, in Tucker County. The air-quality permit application claims the power plant will be a “minor source” emitter, but the numbers don’t add up. One long-time tourist to Tucker County, Tyler Nielson, is so enamored with the wilderness experience in this unique area, he did an analysis of 80 power plants in a nine-state area, learning the distinction between “minor” and “major” emissions. Considering its size, Fundamental Data’s power plant should be a “major source,” but companies are allowed to self-report their category with no oversight. Listing themselves as a minor source allows the company to avoid the environmental and human health impact studies required by major sources. Residents are wise to be con