$1 billion Microsoft data center coming to LaPorte Skip to content Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google LAPORTE, Ind. (WNDU) - Microsoft has mega plans to build a data center in LaPorte. It’s the fourth planned data center project to land in Indiana this year alone. The others are in Fort Wayne, New Carlisle , and Jeffersonville. The news comes on the heels of Microsoft purchasing 900-plus acres of historic farmland in Granger for another new data center in St. Joseph County. Just about everything about this project is huge. For instance, the data center will use more electricity than the rest of the city combined (that includes businesses and residents). It will sit on 489 acres of land in the Radius Industrial Park, where most of its business will take place in the clouds. “So, I think we all know we hear the term cloud often and there’s this dramatic need for servers and online storage for software and all the social media we use each and every day these facilities serve that need,” said Bert Cook of the LaPorte Economic Advancement Partnership (LEAP). The Microsoft data center in LaPorte will sit on 489 acres of land in the Radius Industrial Park, where most of its business will take place in the clouds. (WNDU) The assessed value of all the property in the entire city is about $850 million, while the price tag of the data center will be $1 billion. It seems the only number that isn’t off the charts is the number of new jobs the data center will create: 200 by the end of 2032. “There are high paying jobs. And it’s not about the number of jobs, it’s the quality that counts,” said LaPorte Mayor Tom Dermody. “And Microsoft — when you talk about engineers, you talk about tech, the type of people that may have graduated from here, from LaPorte, and moved on — now gives those young professionals an opportunity to come home and a reason to come home.” “It’s the transition, right? LaPorte has historically been built on manufacturing,” Cook said. “When Alice Chalmers left in the ‘80s, it really did a number on our community. So, to see us transition into this new age high tech jobs, it’s a cool transition to make.” Mayor Dermody was also impressed how community minded Microsoft is, saying the company will commit a certain amount of dollars to the schools each year for the next 40 years. The timeline for construction and operations of the new data center is dependent on the design, planning and permitting process, which will start later this year. Copyright 2024 WNDU. All rights reserved. Latest News News Notre Dame tight end Eli Raridon drafted 95th overall in NFL Draft by New England Patriots Updated : 1 hour ago Former Notre Dame tight end Eli Raridon has been drafted by the New England Patriots with the 95th overall pick in the third round of the 2026 NFL Draft. News Notre Dame wide receiver Malachi Fields drafted 74th overall in NFL Draft by New York Giants Updated : 1 hour ago Former Notre Dame wide receiver Malachi Fields has been drafted by the New York Giants with the 74th overall pick in the third round of the 2026 NFL Draft. News Notre Dame unveils 2026 edition of ‘The Shirt’ Updated : 1 hour ago A beloved tradition at Notre Dame continued Friday evening with the unveiling of the 2026 edition of “The Shirt.” News Man seriously injured after high-speed chase ends in crash in Berrien County Updated : 1 hour ago A 20-year-old man was taken to the hospital with serious injuries after police said he led them on a high-speed chase that ended in a crash Friday afternoon in Berrien County. News Matt competes in "Dancing with Our Stars" Updated : 2 hours ago Latest News News Locals express data center concerns Updated : 3 hours ago WNDU Digital+ Mishawaka fire concerns, Miami County inmate death update, and latest with Iran Updated : 3 hours ago Neighbors are raising concerns about debris and air quality after a massive warehouse fire in Mishawaka, a cause of death has been revealed for an inmate who died at Miami Correctional Facility, and surprising developments in the Middle East. Notre Dame Notre Dame tight end Eli Raridon drafted 95th overall in NFL Draft by New England Patriots Updated : 3 hours ago | By WNDU Staff Raridon was selected by the defending AFC champions in the third round late Friday night. Forecast First Alert Weather Day declared for Monday Updated : 4 hours ago | By Andrew Whitmyer Monday’s storm threat for Michiana is in the evening and night hours News First Alert Weather Day Updated : 4 hours ago A line of strong to severe storms will move into the area throughout the late afternoon and evening hours Monday. The primary threat will be straight-line damaging wind gusts of 60+ mph. We anticipate isolated to several Severe Thunderstorm Warnings and are monitoring closely for possible tornadoes. Heavy rain could exceed 1.00″ in some areas, leading to localized flooding concerns. Stay with First Alert Weather for updates. Notre Dame Notre Dame wide receiver Malachi Fields drafted 74th overall in NFL Draft by New York Giants Updated : 5 hours ago | By WNDU Staff Fields is known for his ability to win contested catches against defensive backs, as well as his ability to make circus catches.