Quantica Infrastructure Introduces Big Sky Digital Infrastructure as its Flagship Development Platform in Montana – Big Sky Economic Development Business Growth Services • Community Development • New Business Recruitment Book Our Space! • Business Assistance • Business Relocation • 406-256-6871 Search… 5,000-Acre Energy, Real Estate and Telecommunications Campus in Montana to Deliver Powered Land, Renewable and Resilient Power Integration, and Strategic Fiber Links Billings, MT – August 4, 2025 – Quantica Infrastructure , LLC (Quantica) introduces its flagship development platform, Big Sky Digital Infrastructure LLC (BSDI), a 5,000-acre energy and digital infrastructure campus outside Billings, Montana. The initial projected capacity is 500 MW of new renewable power and battery energy storage, expandable to 1 GW, to be developed by affiliates of BSDI. The company plans construction of the Big Sky Campus beginning in 2026. “Montana has always been a state that builds its future on the strength of its people and natural resources,” said Damon Obie, a Montana native and co-founder of Big Sky Digital Infrastructure. “The Big Sky Campus represents a unique opportunity to build on the industries that powered our history with the digital economy that will define our future. This project is about creating opportunities for Montanans, so our communities can thrive in the digital age while staying true to our values and heritage.” “A well-planned digital economy can support communities through employment opportunities and infrastructure investments,” said John Chesser, co-founder of Big Sky Digital Infrastructure. “Having begun this journey in 2024 when we formed Quantica, we are excited to announce the Big Sky Campus to our customers and our community partners. This project uses the rising demand for hyperscale, AI, and cloud computing to deliver land, renewable energy, and high-speed fiber in one integrated solution.” “Having worked in the Montana power industry for over twenty years,” said Charlie Baker, BSDI’s Chief Financial Officer, “I look forward to bringing BSDI’s approach of combining traditional grid power with planned renewable and battery energy storage to help customers meet sustainability and reliability goals. Improvements to in-state telecommunications that come with this will benefit the whole community including schools, healthcare, and community services.” The site is expected to be connected to hundreds of miles of new fiber-ready underground conduit, enabling diverse routes to major metropolitan areas that ensure fast, resilient connectivity. BSDI affiliates will also develop large-scale renewable energy and battery energy storage at the site to support the campus. Through this project, the BSDI team expects to create construction jobs and permanent positions, boosting local economic development and workforce training. About Big Sky Digital Infrastructure Big Sky Digital Infrastructure, a Quantica company, is dedicated to advancing Montana’s role in the digital economy by developing world-class infrastructure that connects communities to the future. By harnessing Montana’s expansive land, abundant renewable energy, and strategic geographic location, Big Sky delivers scalable, sustainable, and resilient solutions for AI, hyperscale, and data center operators. Rooted in local values and driven by a vision for statewide growth, Big Sky is building the foundation for enduring opportunity and innovation across the region. For more information, see quanticainfra.com . About Quantica Infrastructure Quantica Infrastructure delivers integrated digital infrastructure solutions by combining permitted land, sustainable power, and resilient network routes for AI, hyperscale, and data center operators across the U.S. For more information, see quanticainfra.com . Newsletter Signup Thank you for your interest in BSED! Please fill out the information below and we will add you to our mailing list.