Vantage breaks ground on Texas gigawatt data center campus for OpenAI - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Vantage breaks ground on Texas gigawatt data center campus for OpenAI Company starts work on Stargate site December 15, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Vantage has broken ground on a new data center campus in Texas set to host hardware for OpenAI. – Vantage Data Centers “This week, Vantage Data Centers hosted a groundbreaking ceremony for our Frontier campus in Shackelford County, Texas,” the company announced on LinkedIn over the weekend. “Part of Oracle and OpenAI’s Stargate expansion, the 1.4GW campus will lead to advancements in AI while creating significant regional economic growth, including employing more than 5,000 individuals across construction and operations.” At full build-out, the 1,200-acre campus will host 10 single-story data centers, totaling 1.4GW across some 3.7 million sq ft (343,740 sqm). The air- and liquid-cooled site will reportedly offer densities of more than 250kW per rack. Each building will have three meet-me rooms. The first building is due to go live in the second half of 2026. Shackleford County is some 125 miles west of Fort Worth, close to Abilene, where Crusoe is developing a large campus for Oracle and OpenAI. Albany, the biggest city in the county, is located some 35 miles northeast of Abilene. News that Vantage was targeting a large campus in Texas surfaced in July , with the company acknowledging but not revealing more details. The company officially announced plans for the “Frontier” site in August , saying investment in the campus will total more than $25 billion. OpenAI and Oracle were officially tied to the site in October as part of a slew of new Stargate announcements in the US. DigitalBridge and Silver Lake-backed Vantage operates or is developing data centers across the US, including in Ohio, Georgia, Texas, California, Virginia, Arizona, Indiana, Nevada, Wisconsin, and Washington. Vantage doesn’t currently operate any facilities in Texas, though it has previously filed to develop sites in San Antonio. Vantage is also developing a Stargate site in Wisconsin . More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 20 Mar 2026 432MW data center campus eyed in Virginia’s Data Center Alley Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 24 Nov 2025 xAI to deploy Telsa Megapacks at Colossus II supercomputing site in Memphis, Tennessee Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Frontier OpenAI Oracle Oracle Cloud Shackleford County Stargate Texas Vantage Vantage Data Centers Comments