Entergy breaks ground on power facility for giant Meta data center 16:43 Brief Business + Labor In A Flash Entergy breaks ground on power facility for giant Meta data center By: Wesley Muller - December 1, 2025 4:43 pm Politicians, regulators and corporate executives dig into a box of sand for a groundbreaking ceremony at the Franklin Farms Power Station site, which will supply electricity for Meta’s data center in Richland Parish. (Photo courtesy of Entergy Louisiana) Entergy Louisiana began construction Monday on a pair of gas power plants that will generate electricity for what will be the world’s largest data center. Entergy Corp., the largest investor-owned utility company in the state, announced it broke ground on its Franklin Farms Power Station project in Richland Parish. The company disseminated a photo from the groundbreaking ceremony showing a group of politicians, regulators and corporate executives digging into a box of sand at the construction site. The facility will power a massive $27 billion data center Meta, the parent company of Facebook and Instagram, is building. It will feature two natural gas-powered plants able to generate about 1,500 megawatts of electricity, many times more than what the sparsely populated farming community of Richland Parish consumes. Proposed less than a year ago, the fast-paced power project received expedited approval from the Louisiana Public Service Commission in August. New power plants of similar type typically go through several years of planning and hearings before construction begins. Construction on Meta’s largest data center brings 600% crash spike, chaos to rural Louisiana The new power plant complex is being built specifically for the data center, though it will be connected to the larger electric grid and could supply power to other customers. Construction on the data center itself is also underway, bringing loads of new workers and traffic to the normally sleepy Richland Parish. The Franklin Farms project, which is expected to come online in late 2028, is not the only power station Entergy is building for the data center. Entergy plans to build a third plant at its Waterford nuclear power plant site in St. Charles Parish, with an expected operational date by the end of 2029. Together, all three gas plants will be able to generate approximately 2,200 megawatts of electricity, which is more than twice the capacity of the entire city of New Orleans, according to the Alliance for Affordable Energy. “These facilities represent the next step in Entergy Louisiana’s long-term strategy to modernize our generation fleet and deliver reliable, cost-effective power to our customers,” Entergy Louisiana CEO Phillip May said in a news release. “By investing in efficient technologies and robust infrastructure, we’re ensuring that Louisiana remains a competitive, attractive place to live, work, and do business both today and well into the future.” GET THE MORNING HEADLINES. SUBSCRIBE Richland Parish Wesley Muller Wes Muller has been with the Illuminator since its founding and covers politics, energy, economics and environment. He traces his journalism roots back to age 13 when he built a hyper-local news website for his New Orleans neighborhood. Since then, he has freelanced for the Times-Picayune and worked on staff at WAFB/CBS, the Sun Herald and the Enterprise-Journal. He also taught English as an adjunct instructor at Baton Rouge Community College. Wes is a New Orleans native, Jesuit High School alumnus, University of New Orleans alumnus and a U.S. Army veteran and former paratrooper. He lives in Louisiana with his wife and kids. Louisiana Illuminator is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Was Louisiana’s ‘energy boom’ a jobs bust? A new data analysis says yes. by Halle Parker, Verite April 23, 2026 ‘A muzzle on elected officials’: NDAs ‘cloak’ Louisiana’s biggest business developments by Drew Hawkins, WWNO-FM March 29, 2026 Meta’s data center ownership transfer doesn’t concern Louisiana power regulators by Wesley Muller February 27, 2026