Amazon acquires 1,000 acres of land outside Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Amazon acquires 1,000 acres of land outside Atlanta, Georgia Company hasn't detailed plans, but site is zoned for 19 million sq ft of industrial space August 04, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Amazon has bought around 1,000 acres of land in Georgia for a potential data center development. As reported by Barnesville Buzz and Barnesville.com , Lamar County commission chairman Ryran Traylor recently confirmed that Amazon Data Services has acquired a large parcel of land in the area, some 55 miles south of Atlanta. Amazon buys land in Barnesville, GA – KW Commercial “According to official records filed with the Lamar County Clerk of Superior Court, Amazon Data Services, Inc., an Amazon subsidiary, has purchased approximately 984.89 acres of land on the west side of Interstate 75,” said Traylor. The land was reportedly acquired for $270 million, with the deal closing at the end of July. The property, previously owned by High Falls 75 LLC and part of the Legacy 75 Trade Center, is located off High Falls Park Road near Exit 198. The site is currently zoned for manufacturing and industrial development. Amazon is yet to provide details of any planned development, but its intentions will reportedly be presented during upcoming pre-construction meetings with the county. “We look forward to engaging in productive discussions with Amazon as they further establish their presence in our community,” said Traylor. Planning permission for the Legacy 75 Trade Center was approved last year. The project was given the green light for up to 19 million square feet (1.76 million sqm) of mixed-use industrial space developed across some 1,560 acres – previous versions of the plan included residential developments and a quarry. The developer estimated that the overall project would be completed by 2034. KW Commercial, a division of real estate firm Keller Williams Realty, along with Abney Realty, were the firms listed on the Legacy 75 website . Subscribe to our daily newsletters Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter series. More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 31 Oct 2025 Nscale selects Vast Data solution for AI platform Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 09 Jan 2026 Candidate running to be Wisconsin's governor proposes statewide moratorium on AI data center construction Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities Tags Abney Realty Amazon Amazon Data Services Amazon Web Services Atlanta Barnesville Georgia KW Commercial Keller Williams Realty Lamar County Legacy 75 Trade Center Comments