Suit demands energy use projections at Meta's Beaver Dam data center ENVIRONMENT Group sues PSC to get projected energy use at Beaver Dam data center Caitlin Looby Claudia Levens Milwaukee Journal Sentinel Updated Dec. 10, 2025, 1:42 p.m. CT An environmental group is suing the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin to force greater transparency in the development of Meta's new data center in Beaver Dam. Meta is the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and a high-profile artificial intelligence lab . On Dec. 9, Midwest Environmental Advocates, a nonprofit environmental law firm, filed a lawsuit in the Dane County Circuit Court after the Public Service Commission denied a records request seeking the data center's projected energy demand. In October, the environmental group requested the electrical load projections for two data centers: the one in Beaver Dam owned by Meta and served by Alliant Energy and another in Port Washington owned by Vantage for use by Open AI and Oracle, which is served by We Energies. The Public Service Commission provided the information for the Port Washington data center, showing We Energies requested interconnection for a 1,300-megawatt facility that would serve the first half of development at the site. The Commission argued that the information on the data center in Beaver Dam should be withheld because it contained trade secrets. It is not clear why the Beaver Dam information would be considered a trade secret, while the Port Washington information was not. The Public Service Commission did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Dec. 10. Energy use for these hyperscale data centers will have big implications for Wisconsin, said Michael Greif, a legal fellow with the environmental group, in a Journal Sentinel interview. The public cannot make informed decisions about this data boom if basic information is not released, Greif said. This is the second major lawsuit filed by Midwest Environmental Advocates in recent months to force greater transparency regarding energy and water use connected to the state's data center boom. In September, the environmental group filed a lawsuit on behalf of Milwaukee Riverkeeper after the City of Racine did not respond to a public records request seeking to obtain information related to water use at Microsoft’s Mount Pleasant data center, which is under construction. Two days later, the city released the information, showing the Microsoft data center in Mount Pleasant would use up to 2.8 million gallons of Lake Michigan water in 2026. That water usage could soar to more than 8.4 million gallons under the anticipated expansion. It's not just environmental advocacy groups turning to the courts to break through secrecy surrounding data center developments. In November, a Port Washington resident filed a lawsuit in Ozaukee County Circuit Court, alleging city officials have not responded to records requests filed in August related to that data center project. Tech companies have their eyes on the Great Lakes region due to its freshwater resources, which are needed for cooling. The data centers can use as much water as a small city, so environmental groups warn they will likely have detrimental effects on households, communities and the environment. A recent report by the Alliance for the Great Lakes warned that the region is ill-prepared for such overwhelming water needs. An analysis by Clean Wisconsin released earlier this year showed the amount of energy needed to power just the two data centers in Beaver Dam and Port Washington will require more energy than all households in Wisconsin. Often, data centers sign nondisclosure agreements with local governments on water use. In fact, an analysis by researchers found that at least 80% of the local governments that approved or were considering data center projects had signed these agreements. Meta is slated to spend more than $1 billion to build the data center in Beaver Dam. In November, the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation announced the campus will cover more than 700,000 square feet. The operational buildings are set to achieve LEED Gold certification, a measurement of sustainability. Meta officials said the company plans to cover infrastructure costs and will underwrite nearly $200 million in energy infrastructure investments, like network upgrades and transmission lines. Meta also said the data center would bring in roughly 100 jobs to the area as well as support 1,000 construction trade jobs during construction. The data center is expected to go online in 2027. Ricardo Torres contributed to reporting on this story. Contact Claudia Levens at clevens@gannett.com. Follow her on X at @levensc13 . Caitlin Looby covers the Great Lakes and the environment for the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. Reach her at clooby@gannett.com and find her on X @caitlooby. All of her work and coverage decisions are overseen solely by Journal Sentinel editors. Caitlin is an Outrider Fellow whose reporting also receives support from the Brico Fund, Fund for Lake Michigan, Barbara K. Frank, and individual contributions to the Journal Sentinel Community-Funded Journalism Project . The project is administered by Local Media Foundation, tax ID #36‐4427750, a Section 501(c)(3) charitable trust affiliated with Local Media Association. Learn more about our community-funded journalism and how to make a tax-deductible gift at jsonline.com/support. Checks can be addressed to Local Media Foundation with “JS Community Journalism” in the memo, then mailed to: Local Media Foundation, P.O. Box 85015, Chicago, IL 60689. Featured Weekly Ad