950,000 sq ft data center proposed for Hutto, Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 950,000 sq ft data center proposed for Hutto, Texas Application is in progress April 08, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say A data center could be built on 40 acres of land in Hutto, Texas. Property developer Zydeco has proposed that a tract located at the southeast corner of County Road 119 and Limmer Loop be rezoned in order to allow for the construction of a 950,000 sq ft (88,255 sqm) data center building. – Zydeco Zydeco claims that the campus, called Project Hutto, will provide $200 million in “predictable taxable value” and use a closed-loop cooling system. It will provide approximately 70MW of capacity when completed, and Zydeco intends to begin detailed design and site-plan engineering in May, depending on whether the campus gets approved. Project Hutto was on the agenda of yesterday’s Hutto Planning and Zoning Commission meeting, but no action was taken. The commission will consider whether to recommend approval of the project’s requests later this month, on April 20, but the final decision rests with the Hutto City Council. The Austin-based Zydeco Development Corporation has experience with residential and business properties. It is the developer behind the MetCenter Creative business park in Austin, which is also designed to accommodate data centers. Hutto is part of the wider Austin area and is located around 28 miles (45km) northeast of the city. The area totals more than 40 data centers, with operators including Digital Realty, CyrusOne, DataBank, LightEdge, Rowan, Colovore, EdgeConneX, Tract, Prime, and others present. More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 22 Jan 2026 Pilot Energy to deploy gas flare data center module in Western Australia Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 03 Mar 2026 Caterpillar partners with OnePWR and Vero3 on nat gas & carbon capture system for data center market Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Austin Hutto Project Hutto Texas Williamson County Zydeco Comments