Two million sq ft data center campus planned outside Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Two million sq ft data center campus planned outside Atlanta, Georgia Atlas files for third GA project this year February 17, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Another large data center campus is being proposed outside Atlanta, Georgia. Atlas Development LLC this week submitted a Development of Regional Impact (DRI) filing to the Georgia Department of Community Affairs for Project Springbank. Atlas plans a six-building campus outside Adairsville, GA – Google Maps Details are sparse, but the development is described as a six-building data center campus totaling 2.274 million sq ft (211,260 sqm) in Bartow County. The project’s completion date is listed as December 2031. Bartow County is some 40 miles northwest of Atlanta. The filing only provides longitude and latitude coordinates, which suggest land southeast of Adairsville along Perkins Mountain Road. The project will utilize closed-loop technology to “reduce water and sewer demand.” The site is currently owned by the Darryl William Edwards Living Revocable Trust, King Curtis LLC, and Riverside NVR LLC. Little information is available about Atlas, but the company is planning several campuses in Georgia. January saw the company file for an 830-acre, 13-building data center campus south of Atlanta in Newnan. The company has since filed for a second 178-acre data center project in Rome. More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 03 Mar 2026 $5bn data center project in the works around Columbus, Georgia Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America North America data center report 19 Jan 2026 New Era closes acquisition of Sharon AI's stake in Texas Critical Data Centers Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Georgia Bartow County Atlas Development LLC Project SpringBank Adairsville Atlanta Comments