CBRE’s Trammell Crow files to develop 12 million sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel CBRE’s Trammell Crow files to develop 12 million sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia Up to $8.4 billion could be invested in Forsyth Technology Campus November 28, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A large new data center campus is being proposed outside Atlanta, Georgia. CBRE-owned Trammell Crow Company recently filed a Developments of Regional Impact (DRI) application with the Georgia Department of Community Affairs for a project known as the Forsyth Technology Campus. – Google Maps The company aims to develop up to 12 million sq ft (1.1 million sqm) of technology facility buildings on a 1,630-acre site along Johnsonville Road, Smith Road, and Collier Road west of I-75. Development on the $8.4 billion project could run until 2037. According to local press , Trammell Crow is working with local timber firm H & H, which owns the land. Forsyth is a city in and the county seat of Monroe County, some 60 miles south of Atlanta. Several large-scale projects are being planned in the area. Cloverleaf Infrastructure is hoping to develop a large campus nearby. The 900-acre Rumble Technology Campus could see up to 12 buildings developed, totaling 4.2 million sq ft (390,190 sqm). Google has also acquired 950 acres in Monroe County, close to the planned Rumble campus. Permission for another 900-acre campus proposed for nearby Bolingbroke was denied by officials in August . Atlanta, traditionally a Tier 2 market, has quickly become a major hotspot for data center development. DRI applications for more than a dozen campuses, totaling tens of millions of square feet across dozens of buildings, have been filed over the last couple of years. Trammell Crow targets data center in Washington Trammell Crow Company is a commercial real estate development firm owned by CBRE since 2006. The company was previously involved in filing for a data center project outside Atlanta in Winston, and another outside Augusta . In Washington state, the company is reportedly targeting a potential data center campus in the Tri-Cities metropolitan area. Trammell Crow recently confirmed to the Tri-City Herald that it is exploring plans to develop a data center campus on part of the Lewis & Clark Ranch site in West Richland. “Trammell Crow Company is studying the feasibility of developing a portion of the Lewis & Clark land. Once our development plans are finalized, we will engage with the city of West Richland and the local community,” the firm told the Herald. West Richland is a city in Benton County, Washington. According to the city’s website , the Lewis & Clark Ranch totals some 7,000 acres of land within the city limits. Owned by Frank Tiegs LLC, the site is used for farming, but it is zoned to transition to urban uses over time. At least part of the site is now set to be developed for residential use. West Richland Mayor Brent Gerry disclosed the potential data center during a recent Port of Benton Commission meeting. He said Trammell Crow had a deal for 500 acres, potentially growing to 1,000, with Frank Tiegs LLC. Atlas Agro, which is developing a fertilizer plant in nearby Richland, is looking to develop data centers on the site. A company operating behind the Advance Phase LLC is looking to build a campus in Walla Walla . Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 24 Feb 2026 Amazon looks to build large-scale data center campus next to nuclear plant in Texas Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 13 Feb 2026 Everest International Partners to acquire US Southwest tower assets from ATN International for $297m Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Benton County CBRE Forsyth Forsyth Technology Campus Georgia Monroe County Trammell Crow Washington West Richland Comments