Data center planned on 114-acre plot in Rome, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Data center planned on 114-acre plot in Rome, Georgia Located within a few miles of Microsoft's development December 19, 2024 By Niva Yadav Have your say A data center is planned on a 114-acre plot next to Coosa High School in Floyd County, Georgia. – Google Maps The Floyd County Board of Education approved the sale of the land through the county development authority at its meeting on November 26, 2024. The development authority said it will be the second data center project in the county, and likely not the last. Specifications of the project have not yet been shared. Currently, a specific company has not been named for the project. However, the buyer of the land is the living trust of William Darryl Edwards and is represented by three developers; Darryl Edwards, Darren Hardin, and Jonathan Ward. In October last year , Microsoft purchased 347 acres of land near Huffaker Road for a data center build, investing $1 billion in the project. Microsoft’s project is within a few miles of the new plot. The tech giant already pays property taxes and county school taxes on the increased value of its land on Huffaker Road. Rome is in northeast Georgia, close to the state border with Alabama, and around 70 miles from the state's existing data center hub in Atlanta. The likes of Digital Realty, CoreSite, Switch, Google, Microsoft, Flexential, H5, and numerous others have or are developing data centers in the Atlanta area – largely around Lithia Springs or Douglasville. QTS is building a massive, 1.4GW data center campus in Fayetteville . In 2021, Microsoft announced plans for a cloud region in Georgia known as East US 3. More in Construction & Site Selection Hong Kong: Asia’s connectivity hub 17 Mar 2026 Former paper mill site in Finland targeted for data center use - report Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 07 Apr 2026 AI ops hit the fairway at the Ryder Cup Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Georgia Floyd County Board of Education Huffaker Road Coosa High School Floyd County William Darryl Edwards Rome North America US Rome Floyd County Development Authority Comments