AWS plans $2bn data center campus in Sunbury, Ohio - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel AWS plans $2bn data center campus in Sunbury, Ohio As state investment hits $10bn November 22, 2024 By Sebastian Moss Have your say Amazon Web Services (AWS) plans to build a $2 billion data center campus in Sunbury, Central Ohio. The cloud company said that the new development in Delaware County will bring its data center investment in the state to $10bn. – Sebastian Moss AWS plans to build the site at 11793 Vans Valley Road in the Sunbury Business and Technology Park. Construction of the first 450,000 square foot (41,800 sq m) building is expected to begin in January 2028 and be completed by December 2034. "Our newest investment in Sunbury builds on our strong partnership with the community and the state, and our ongoing investment will help continue to foster innovation, nurture the next generation of talent, and expand on the fantastic partnerships we have across the Buckeye state," Roger Wehner, AWS' VP of economic development for Amazon Web Services, said. On Wednesday, the Sunbury City Council approved an economic development package for the tech giant. The 30-year community reinvestment area incentive grants a property tax exemption for the assessed value of each building constructed at the project site. An 87.5 percent exemption will be given for years 1-15, and a 75 percent exemption will be provided for years 16-30. Last year, AWS said that it planned to invest an estimated $7.8 billion by the end of 2029/2030 on data centers in Ohio. $3.5bn of that is expected to go to New Albany, where the company has announced it plans to build a five-building data center campus . Ohio is becoming a major data center market, with the likes of Amazon , CyrusOne , Edged , Google , Meta, QTS , Aligned , and others building or operating data centers in the area. Last month, Microsoft said that it would spend $1bn on a data center campus in Central Ohio. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 15 Apr 2026 Microsoft plans to buy 3,200 acres of land for data center project in Cheyenne, Wyoming Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in Cloud & Hyperscale Accelerating hyperscale deployments in the AI era Sponsored Five trends in AI infrastructure for 2026 Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control Tags AWS Roger Wehner Amazon Web Services Ohio Sunbury Sunbury Business and Technology Park Delaware County Comments