Compass Datacenters proposes 333-acre campus in Statesville, North Carolina - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Compass Datacenters proposes 333-acre campus in Statesville, North Carolina Would be company's second campus in the state August 18, 2025 By Georgia Butler Have your say Compass Datacenters has proposed a new data center campus in North Carolina. The company held a meeting on August 14 to discuss the possibility of a campus with residents in Statesville, in which it shared details of the proposal, reports the Statesville Record & Landmark . The meeting is required before the planning board and city council will consider rezoning the land. Land around Stamey Farm – Google Maps Compass is planning to develop on 333 acres of land on Stamey Farm Road in Statesville, land which is currently owned by the Stamey Land Company. The presentation suggested that Compass would look to construct five data center buildings spanning a total of 1.34 million square feet (124,490 sqm). The site is located nearby to a Duke Energy substation, which would provide power to the site, while Compass has said the data center will be air-cooled to reduce water usage. Plans will be released on the city of Statesville website on August 19. The proposal will be discussed by the Statesville Planning Board on August 26, and the City Council on September 15 and October 6. JLL is currently advertising Stamey Farms as a "strategic data center campus opportunity" with up to 500MW of power capacity. Compass already operates a data center campus in North Carolina, located in Raleigh. According to its website , the facility is fully leased. The new proposal comes just days after Tract withdrew its plans for a data center campus in the Mooresville Technology Park outside Mooresville in Iredell County. A 400-acre site, Tract aimed to ready the site for a potential 1.5 million sq ft (139,354 sqm) of data center space at full build-out. Statesville, like Mooresville, is located in Iredell County and is part of the Charlotte metropolitan area. Charlotte is North Carolina's largest data center market, counting Digital Realty, Flexential, Cogent, and many more among its operators. More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 11 Nov 2025 AirTrunk set to buy planned 1GW data center site in Western Sydney, Australia Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 20 Apr 2026 FERC approves transmission agreement for planned 1GW Tract data center in Morris, Illinois Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Compass Datacenters North Carolina Stamey Farm Stamey Farm Road Statesville Comments