Hawaii-based cloud provider Servpac expands data center - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Hawaii-based cloud provider Servpac expands data center Expansion to cost $13m February 10, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say Servpac, a data center provider based in Hawaii, has broken ground on a data center expansion that will double the IT capacity of its MTP Data Center on O’ahu. According to a January press release, the expansion will come in the form of a $13 million, 5-acre data center located in Mililani Technology Park, which is home to a variety of tech and telco companies. – Servpac MTP Data Center completed the first phase of its construction in September 2021 and doubled its colocation capacity in 2023 . The company's website says the facility currently totals 30,000 sq ft and 1MW. The company said the expansion – currently in the design phase – will be built on the property’s additional 150,000 square-feet of company-owned land, providing an estimated 10-times more cabinet- and power capacity. Construction timelines haven't been shared. Servpac stated that phase one of the data center, completed in 2021, would produce approximately 1MWh of power per day using 500 solar panels. The expansion is also planned to be built to “withstand Category 5 hurricane-force winds,” according to the company. “Given Hawaii’s particular vulnerabilities because of threats from hurricanes to tsunami and rising sea levels, the need is great for a state-of-the-art, geographically secure data facility,” said President Richard Zheng. According to Servpac’s website, it provides cloud computing, fiber, IT management, colocation, disaster recovery, and VoIP business phones Mililani Technology Park is situated in the middle of O’ahu, one of Hawaii’s constituent islands, and home to the state capital Honolulu. More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 11 Dec 2025 Georgia Power proposes $16bn plan to add 10GW of new generation capacity to meet data center growth Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 09 Apr 2026 NTT launches data center in Kyoto, Japan Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive Tags Hawaii MTP Data Center Mililani Technology Park Servpac Comments