Lincoln Google data center expected to be in service by Fall Skip to content Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google LINCOLN, Neb. (KOLN) - Right off the corner of I-80 and Highway 77, progress can be seen for Google’s newest data center, aiming to begin service this Fall. This center will not only bring more power to the growing demand for Google’s already used services, but also innovating AI. While growth is good, the Lincoln Electric System says the growth in energy demand is something they’re watching. “Energy centers from data centers and AI is something we have to be concerned about,” said Scott Benson, manager of resource and transmission planning at LES. “No different than the growth of electric vehicles, no different than electrification where people are taking more nonelectrical loads and moving them over to electricity, all things we have to be prepared for and make sure we’re meeting our customers’ needs, whatever those may be.” As we have previously covered , the International Energy Agency predicts an exponential growth in us and global data center use by 2030, with AI making the push to build more of these facilities. While LES says they can’t tell us the exact amount of energy this data center will use, they say they have an agreement with Google for a facility in excess of 20 megawatts. That’s enough to power thousands of homes per year. “Everything is designed to provide google with fair and reliable service, while at the same time making sure there’s no undue financial burden or risk put on the rest of our existing customers,” said Benson. So no extra price tag on your electric bill, but how efficient is their energy usage? According to a google spokesperson, they say, “...Google’s data centers are some of the most efficient in the world. On average, a google data center is 1.8 times as energy efficient as a typical, enterprise data center and delivers nearly four times more computing power than five years ago.” While they acknowledge there’s still uncertainty with AI‘s growing demand in their 2024 environmental report , they’re still trying to innovate in their energy efficiency, with efforts like diverting 78% of operational waste from disposal across our global fleet, achieving 64% carbon-free energy on average across all of their data centers, and more. Click here to subscribe to our 10/11 NOW daily digest and breaking news alerts delivered straight to your email inbox. Copyright 2025 KOLN. All rights reserved. Most Read Officer resigns from Lincoln Police Department amid sexual assault investigation Lincoln woman’s death ruled ‘accidental drowning’ after body found in northeast pond Lincoln police find missing 14-year-old girl Weather Alert Day | Tornado Watch in place through 7 PM Thursday for eastern Nebraska Deputies stationed at Centennial Public Schools after ‘concerning’ TikTok videos surface Woman struck by trailer on I-80 near Waverly succumbs to injuries Man arrested in southeast Lincoln standoff Four children removed from home of Fairbury teacher amid abuse investigation Latest News Storm chances by Saturday evening; threat of severe weather across southeast Nebraska and again Sunday Fredstrom Elementary fourth graders plant trees for Arbor Day This Day in History - April 24: Author Willa Cather died in New York City This Day in History - April 24: Author Willa Cather died in New York City Looking Glass mission could return to Offutt Air Force Base Man arrested in Lincoln County after assaulting woman in front of children with a gun Pressey Fire 45% containment; Multiple wildfires reported in central Nebraska and Sandhills Lincoln bar vows to fight license cancellation; liquor commission hearing May 5