Cyxtera - Sterling Data Center IAD1-A - Cloud and Colocation Skip to content Cyxtera – Sterling Data Center IAD1-A Cyxtera’s Sterling IAD1-A data center located at 45901 Nokes Blvd. in Sterling, VA is data center designed to meet the stringent demands of enterprise customers. Cyxtera provides a full suite of hosting services through the Sterling data center from simple colocation to fully managed IT infrastructure hosting. The Sterling data center is a Tier III infrastructure offering half and full locking cabinet colocation, full or half cage colocation space of 10 x 10 feet or 5 x 10 feet respectively, and custom caged space colocation. The data center provides 72,389 square feet of total space including raised floor space. The data center is SAS 70 Type II certified, and a PCI DSS compliant facility. Onsite security personnel monitor the hosting facilities 24 x 7 x 365 via the indoor / outdoor video surveillance. The data center security desk manages access to the facility, and biometric palm scanners and card key authentication is required to access the data center floor. The fire suppression system and seismic engineering capabilities protect systems and data from natural and man-made catastrophes. The data center has multiple levels of electrical and mechanical redundancy protecting the power load during events, and offers 100% SLA on power. The data center is a N+1 power design, with a total of 3.6 MW of power fed to the facility. The data center delivers clean, continuous power to critical systems, with power densities up to 225 watts per square foot, and 120V or 208V AC circuit types at 20A and 30A. Alternate and redundant power circuits on diverse PDUs are provided to the customer’s equipment with NEMA and custom receptacles available. Power failure is protected by redundant UPS systems in N+1 configuration with a battery bank, and automatic transfer to standby diesel generators in the event there is loss of utility power. Sophisticated HVAC effectively moderates the cooling and humidity in the data center. This carrier grade data center is a carrier neutral facility with the availability of multiple, diverse carriers. The data center offers multiple connectivity options including Internet bandwidth, multi-protocol label switching (MPLS), virtual private network (VPN), Ethernet virtual private line (EVPL), Ethernet private line (EPL) and private line services. Synchronous optical network (SONET) connectivity provided for access at DS-1, DS-3 and optical connectivity speeds supporting either voice or data traffic. 10G uplinks connect to the Cyxtera IP network through both public and private connections. Onsite 24 x 7 x 365 support is provided by leveraging infrastructure professionals with extensive technical, management and IT support experience. About Cyxtera Cyxtera provides comprehensive data center solutions, for clients of all sizes. Cyxtera currently operates over 50 data centers worldwide with over 195MW of power and 2.6M/sq ft. of raised floor space. Their state of the art data centers provide their customers with: Ability to focus on core business competencies rather than data center management Capital and operational expense savings for data center facilities, maintenance and power consumption Access to leading cloud and managed service providers to enable optimal platform deployment for each workload Cyxtera provides quality colocation with security expertise and outstanding customer support. Cyxtera - Sterling Data Center IAD1-A 45901 Nokes Blvd, Sterling, VA 20166, USA Explore all Cyxtera data center locations, view additional Sterling data center locations, or expand your view to all data centers in Virginia . View more Cyxtera data centers View other Sterling data centers View all Virginia data centers Cyxtera – Sterling Data Center IAD1-A highlights Tier III Design Carrier Grade Facility 72,389 Square Feet of Space Raised Floors Half and Full Cabinets Colocation Locked Cabinets and Caged Space Colocation SAS 70 Type II Certified PCI DSS Compliant Security Guards Video Surveillance Biometric Palm Scanners and Card Key Access Fire Suppression System 100 % SLA on Power Power in N+1 Configuration 3.6 MW of Utility Power Power Density of 225 Watts Per Square Feet 120V or 208V AC Power 20A and 30A Power Circuits Redundant and Diverse Power Circuits Multiple PDUs NEMA and Custom Receptacles UPS in N+1 Configuration Battery Backup Diesel Generators HVAC Units Carrier Neutral Facility Multiple Connectivity Options SONET Connectivity 10G Uplinks 24 x 7 Onsite Support Request Quote Δ Company This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Name * First Last Company Name Email * Phone * Skype Requirements Tell us about your Space, Power, Bandwidth or any special requirements I would like a quote from Cyxtera - Sterling Data Center IAD1-A. Are you interested in quotes from other providers in the area? * Yes No Nearby Data Centers Cyxtera - Sterling Data Center IAD1-C 21110 Ridgetop Cir, Sterling, VA 20166, USA 0.11mi Cyxtera - Sterling Data Center IAD1-B 45845 Nokes Blvd, Sterling, VA 20166, USA 0.12mi CyrusOne Sterling Data Center – Northern Virginia-Sterling II 21111 Ridgetop Circle, Sterling, VA, 20166, USA 0.19mi CyrusOne Sterling Data Center – Sterling I 21111 Ridgetop Circle, Sterling, VA, 20166, USA 0.19mi CyrusOne Sterling Data Center – Sterling - Kincora 21350 Pacific Boulevard, Sterling, VA, 20166, USA 1.12mi