New 'tornado proof' data center in OKC Skip to content by: Katelyn Ogle/KFOR Posted: May 24, 2025 / 06:14 PM CDT Updated: May 24, 2025 / 06:14 PM CDT SHARE OKLAHOMA CITY ( KFOR ) — During severe weather season, most people are thinking about protecting their homes, cars, and of course, their loved ones. Some companies are concerned about protecting their data servers. One data hub has thought of that. “This is the Taj Mahal of ’em all,” said Don Shelton, the facilities manager of Valor C3. The hub of data servers is housed in an inconspicuous 162,000 sq. ft. facility near the Will Rogers International Airport called the Valor C3 Data Center. “A hotel for servers or computers,” said Shelton. Nowadays, companies like oil and gas, HR and payroll, banks, and healthcare facilities don’t store their important documents on paper. It’s all digital and they need big servers or computers to store it all. Many of them don’t want the servers at their place of work. “And they don’t have people to watch that, or troubleshoot, and they don’t have the space,” said Shelton. Shelton said that’s why people choose a data center, but Valor C3 was built to withstand EF-5 tornadoes. “This is what our walls look like,” said Shelton. It’s made up of two kinds of concrete and a squishy material in the middle Shelton calls a ‘pillow’ to help with cold and hot weather. “That’s the effect of heating up, it expands. Cooling, it contracts. So it’s a living wall,” said Shelton. The rest of the facility is essentially a fortified castle. “Now you have walked into the EF-5 rated area,” said Shelton as he walked through a set of blast doors. They also have 18-gauge steel blast doors located at their loading docks. Shelton said the building runs on a system that reacts to severe weather. “It will close us up like an envelope, and everything in it runs business as usual,” said Shelton. If the power goes out, they have multiple generators located inside the EF-5 walls, with enough gas to keep them going. It’s all to protect the two 10,000 sq. ft. data centers. Whether you need a cabinet hub or space, it’ll be cooled by circulating water and air. More Local News Edmond businesses struggling amid construction delays Families picking up the pieces after Enid EF-4 tornado Volunteers offer a helping hand in Enid after EF-4 tornado “Because servers generate heat in a combined space of this small black cabinet,” said Shelton. Countless extra steps taken to ensure data stays online even during the most severe storms. “Where are we? We’re in Tornado Alley,” said Shelton. Add as preferred source on Google ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now KFOR Morning Headlines SIGN UP NOW Local Videos NOW PLAYING Edmond businesses struggling amid construction delays Tornado leaves path of destruction in Enid Dozens of homes damaged or destroyed in Enid Volunteers offering a helping hand after Enid tornado Governor Stitt declares a disaster emergency for … 2026 Memorial Marathon weekend kicks off One dead, firefighter injured in SE Oklahoma City … Destructive storms hit Oklahoma, leaving damage behind OKANA’s newest social attraction New proposal could keep TSET and take $1 billion Nearly 200 horses banned from racing after showing … Celebrating 100 years of Route 66 Man arrested after motorcycle chase in northeast … Former Christian school principal to spend decade … The Festival of the Arts at Bicentennial Park through … OKANA Boardwalk official opening today 4 The Thunder pics Teen Canadian Thunder fan battling Cancer goes to … More Videos Oklahoma Education Strong Readers Act passes the OK Senate, heads to … OKLAHOMA CITY (KFOR) — The Oklahoma Senate has passed Senate Bill 1778, known as the Strong Readers Act. This legislation mandates that students unable to read by the end of third grade be held back an additional year. The bill, which also includes … Oklahoma lawmakers push to extend school year A push to extend the school year by seven days is making its way through the legislature but some school districts are apprehensive about the change. University of Central Oklahoma eyeing new development … The University of Central Oklahoma, UCO, is eyeing a new development just west of its campus. It would be a university district that the university said can connect the campus and community. Jewish school sues Oklahoma Charter School Board A proposed Jewish charter school is now suing Oklahoma’s Statewide Charter School Board after it denied the school’s application for public funding, setting up another legal fight over whether religious schools can receive taxpayer dollars. Senate bill doubling recess time for student passes … The Oklahoma Senate on Tuesday passed Senate Bill 1481, which seeks to double recess time for students in kindergarten through fifth grade. View All Oklahoma Education Around the Block on KFOR+ Around the Block: Pauls Valley principal honored On today’s Around the Block, we talked about the Pauls Valley principal who tackled, and disarmed a gunman in the lobby of the school is now being honored as prom king, the Oklahoma City’s traffic and transportation commission approved reducing the … Around the Block: Thunder Playoff Season On today’s Around the Block, we talked about the upcoming Thunder playoff season, Chrysler Tower being lit up in Bristow, and Elephant Asha’s pregnancy. Around the Block: Moore Police foot chase On today’s Around the Block, we talked about OU’s Owen Heinecke winning his case against the NCAA, a viral clip of Moore Police chasing a suspect, and a postal worker getting a new home. Around the Block: Adria’s trip to Ireland On today’s Around the Block, we talked about Adria’s trip, a Moore police pursuit, and the Oklahoma Bar Association hosting a “Ask a Lawyer” event. Around the Block: Sneak peek of Wiley Post park On today’s Around the Block, we’re getting a sneak peek of upgrades at Wiley Post Park, the Village Police Department lend a helping hand, and state wildlife experts tell us springtime is when the rattlesnakes emerge. More from KFOR+ Oklahoma News Edmond businesses struggling amid construction delays Families picking up the pieces after Enid EF-4 tornado Volunteers offer a helping hand in Enid after EF-4 … Tornado barrels through south Enid Thursday night Langston fire truck side-swiped by semi-truck in … Memorial Marathon weekend kicks off with 30,000 runners Police seek to identify two in burglary investigation Gov. Stitt declares disaster emergency for two counties Kasey Alert issued for runaway teen last seen in … Tornado disaster relief info following devastating … 4Sight drone video of Enid tornado damage One dead, firefighter injured in SE Oklahoma City … Gov. Stitt visits storm damaged areas in Oklahoma Tornado leaves behind damage in Enid Multiple tornadoes cause damage in Oklahoma TSET could be saved after OK Senate makes suggestions ‘The Boardwalk’: OKANA’s newest social attraction Investigation into race horses showing signs of distress Former private school principal sentenced Oklahoma authorities warn of court enforcement scam View All Local Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now KFOR News Alerts SIGN UP NOW Politics from TheHill GOP senators ratchet up pressure on Speaker Johnson … Democrats poised to escalate pressure on GOP with … House Republicans grumbling about ‘skinny’ ICE funding … Jeffries warns Democrats might not support FISA reauthorization … Fetterman: ‘Iran must be so excited by the American … DOJ watchdog to review department’s compliance with … Republicans divided on whether to check Trump’s Iran … Negotiators hopeful for deal on spy powers amid messy … House lawmakers clamoring for ethics reforms after … Book ban battles pivot as challenges to more titles … Johnson faces pressure from all sides as funding … 2 GOP senators break ranks on final Senate budget 