Industrial site in Stowe Township eyed for potential data center - CBS Pittsburgh All News KDKA Investigations Politics Consumer Business HealthWatch Entertainment Galleries KDKA+ Pittsburgh Weather School Closings/Delays Submit Weather Photos Weather Watchers Out For A Walk Forecast Hey Ray Classroom Weather Latest CBS Sports HQ Steelers Penguins Pirates Pitt Riverhounds High Schools Nightly Sports Call Inside The Huddle FAN N'ATION #1 Cochran Sports Showdown Odds Pittsburgh Today Live Talk Pittsburgh Intersections KD Quiz Nightly Sports Call #1 Cochran Sports Showdown Seen on KDKA KD Quiz Intersections KDKA In Your Neighborhood Sunday Spotlight Meet the Team Contact Us Contests & Promotions Advertise Download the App Watch CBS News A massive industrial site in the West Hills could soon become home to a future data center. The property in question is the Rock Point Industrial site along Nichol Avenue in Stowe Township, a parcel of land with strategic location advantages: it's near the river, railways, highways, and within reach of Pittsburgh. While talks of a data center are still in the early stages, one key problem remains: township ordinances currently do not permit a data center to operate there. That's why, at Tuesday night's board meeting, township commissioners voted to approve advertising a potential ordinance change, a procedural step that would allow the public to weigh in before any final decision is made. "I think anything that could bring jobs, businesses, taxes to help our tax base, and to really improve the entire area," said Cheryl McDermott, president of the Stowe Township Board of Commissioners. "Going forward, if that were to happen, I would hope it would open that area up to other companies coming in to see what they have on that acreage," said McDermott. Despite the optimism, many residents living nearby say they're uncertain about what exactly the data center would look like. "I was just curious as to what it is and what it involves and how it's going to improve the neighborhood," said June, a resident. Others, like Mechlin Tollan, agree and want to know more. "I want to know more about it before they do anything. Like what kind of data would they be researching? What would they be doing to our environment?" said Tollan. Concerns about power usage, environmental impact and pollution have surfaced, though Commissioner McDermott says regulatory safeguards will be in place. "Government agencies like the DEP, EPA, I think that would all be regulated," said McDermott. "We have agencies that will be there to protect us. If we need them, we can always contact them because that's what they're there for." The next township board meeting is scheduled for Nov. 10, when commissioners are expected to revisit the proposal and possibly vote. Before then, officials say they want to ensure the community has a chance to weigh in. In: Technology Allegheny County Featured Local Savings Industrial site in Stowe Township eyed for potential data center Industrial site in Stowe Township eyed for potential data center 02:29 Industrial site in Stowe Township eyed for potential data center (02:29) Property owner eyeing Wegmans location at the Galleria of Mt. Lebanon mall Radnor Township residents push for ban on gas powered leaf blowers Former Bucks County police officer, school security guard charged with child pornography Cobb County leaders shut down plan for Walmart drone deliveries in East Cobb over neighborhood concerns Hidden camera catches drivers outside daycare passing stopped school bus Lincolnwood Town Center mall to be torn down beginning in May Henry County abruptly dismisses County Manager Cheri Matthews 87-year-old man dies from smoke inhalation after house fire in Oakland County, deputies say View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue