20MW off-grid data center planned outside Salt Lake City, Utah - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 20MW off-grid data center planned outside Salt Lake City, Utah Islanded natural gas-powered facility takes locals by surprise more than a year after officials gave the ok January 30, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say An off-grid, natural gas-powered data center could be coming to Utah. Officials in the city of Santaquin this week held a community open house to answer questions about a planned data center in the area. – Data Center Power Company The Summit Ridge Data Center is set to be developed on land at 15372 S. Ridge Farms Road. Full details are unclear, but the 20MW+ project is being developed by the Data Center Power Company. The development will use a closed-loop cooling system. Santaquin is a city in Utah and Juab counties, some 65 miles (104.6km) south of Salt Lake City. According to local press , the project was actually approved by the city back in 2024 with little fanfare, with a site plan approved last summer. However, many local residents are reportedly only hearing about it for the first time this week. Santaquin Mayor Dan Olsen said this week that there were 11 public meetings held on the topic, with the last one on January 6. The campus will not be grid-connected, according to Olsen. “All power for the data center is generated on site with natural gas engines. It's all rated and controlled by the EPA,” he added. A start date for construction has not yet been set. Data Center Power Company aims to build islanded off-grid data centers powered by on-site generation. The company focuses on behind-the-meter deployments utilizing natural gas. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Hong Kong: Asia’s connectivity hub 09 Feb 2026 Sponsored Through the looking glass: Re-centering human sustainability in the data center industry Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 19 Jan 2026 New Era closes acquisition of Sharon AI's stake in Texas Critical Data Centers Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 15372 S. Ridge Farms Road Behind-the-Meter Data Center Power Company Natural Gas Santaquin Summit Ridge Data Center Utah Comments