Two data center projects planned for Monticello, Minnesota - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Two data center projects planned for Monticello, Minnesota Projects would total more than 4 million sq ft of development across more than 600 acres October 27, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Two data center projects are making their way through planning in the city of Monticello outside Minneapolis, Minnesota. The two projects would total more than 4 million sq ft (371,612 sqm) of development across more than 600 acres. Both proposals are in early stages and would require annexation, environmental review, and city approval before moving forward. – Monticello Tech, LLC 3 million sq ft tech park planned in Monticello Frattalone Companies, via Monticello Tech, LLC, is planning to develop the Monticello Tech Park in the city of Monticello. The 500-acre development, south of 85th Street and east of Highway 25 within the Monticello Orderly Annexation Area, could total 3 million sq ft (278,709 sqm) across multiple 300,000 sq ft (27,871 sqm) buildings. In discussions since last year, the project could see up to $5 billion invested. As part of the review process for the proposed project, the City of Monticello this month voted to initiate an Alternative Urban Areawide Review (AUAR) to assess the potential impact of the project ahead of a formal land use application being submitted. According to local press, the AUAR is expected to take several months to complete, and will asses the impact to local water, wildlife, noise, energy, and traffic. The AUAR is a study and will be used to influence any final decisions. Founded in 1970, Frattalone Companies is a family-owned construction firm based in Minnesota. It’s unclear if the company is working with a larger real estate firm or data center operator for the project. Monticello is a city next to the Mississippi River in Wright County, some 40 miles (64 km) northwest of Minneapolis. The city recently amended its 2040 Comprehensive Plan to accommodate the potential for data center developments in its Light Industrial Park (LIP) land use category. Local utility Xcel Energy operates the Monticello Nuclear Generating Plant in the area. Launched in 1971, the 647MW plan is currently licensed to operate until 2030, but Xcel has filed to renew to operate the plans for a further 20 years. – Scannel Properties Scannell looks to Monticello Elsewhere in Monticello, real estate firm Scannell Properties is eyeing its own data center development. The Scannell Technology Park, located on 106 acres between the Otter Creek Crossing Industrial Park to the north, 90th Street NW to the south, and abutting the Bertram Chain of Lakes Regional Park to the west, would total 1.3 million sq ft (120,774 sqm). Some four buildings, each offering 320,000 sq ft (29,729 sqm), would be built out in phases. A Cushman & Wakefield sales brochure suggests the site could offer 150MW by 2027. The site is owned by Mary and David Spike Land. First mooted to the city earlier this year, the project would need its own environmental review to move forward. Founded in 1990, Scannell Properties is a privately owned real estate development and investment company, focusing on build-to-suit and speculative projects throughout the US, Canada, and Europe. A Change.org petition against both projects has garnered more than 600 signatures to date. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 10 Dec 2025 Former aviation firm Jet.AI details plans for 350-acre data center campus in Winnipeg, Canada Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in North America North America data center report 27 Nov 2025 Equinix files to develop another data center campus in Dallas, Texas Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Frattalone Companies Minneapolis Minnesota Monticello Monticello Tech,LLC Scannell Properties Wright County Comments