5,000 acre plot listed for sale for data center development in the Texas Panhandle - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 5,000 acre plot listed for sale for data center development in the Texas Panhandle Offers up to 1GW of available power capacity June 17, 2025 By Zachary Skidmore Have your say A 5,000-acre plot of land in the Texas Panhandle has been put up for sale for potential data center development. – Getty Images According to the listing by Roxanne Marquis of 8888CRE , the plot offers three independent power lanes, including a 250MW behind-the-meter ramp available from mid-2026, a 250MW wind offtake available from July 2026, and a high-pressure gas line that can provide 500MW of onsite power within a 12-month period. In total, the listing notes that the plot could support up to 1GW of data center capacity. The site also has its own 345kV frontage connection point, which can be directly connected to the SPP grid. Details on the site's exact location and current owners were not immediately available. The listing reflects the growth of the Texan market as the go-to destination for new data center builds seeking a behind-the-meter connection. Due to the state's ample land, lack of state tax, and significant natural gas and renewable potential, several operators have begun to target it as an emerging hotspot. In 2025 alone, several AI-specific data center operators have announced projects in the state. Earlier this month , Texas Critical Data Centers signed an agreement with PowerForward Energy for 250MW of onsite natural gas power for its planned data center in Ector County, Texas. Before this, in February , CloudBurst signed a ten-year supply agreement with midstream gas company Energy Transfer to provide its debut Texas data center with behind-the-meter power. However, it is not only smaller AI startups that are targeting the Texan market. Earlier this year, the much vaunted Stargate project in Abilene, Texas, submitted an application to site a 360.5MW natural gas plant adjacent to the facility to provide it with behind-the-meter power. The project, which is a joint venture between OpenAI, Oracle, SoftBank, and investment firm MGX, is planning to invest upwards of $500 billion in developing a swathe of AI data centers across the world. More in Critical Power Advancing the AI revolution Sponsored Why standards must keep pace with rising data center voltages Episode Achieving energy independence with behind–the-meter power solutions More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 08 Dec 2025 Palantir unveils Chain Reaction OS to accelerate AI infrastructure buildout Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 8888CRE Texas Texas Panhandle Comments