Marion County Data Center Campus Stream Data Centers is honored to become part of the Marion County community. Thank you for your interest Our thanks go to all who attended our recent information session. We look forward to hosting more sessions and sharing additional information about this project here. Project summary Stream Data Centers is exploring the opportunity to develop approximately 400 acres of land located in the Marion County Industrial Park into a data center campus. This project represents a potential +$6 billion in total investment in this community, and at full build, would total six buildings and around four million square feet. Phase one of this project would include three buildings totaling around two million square feet. Key drivers of this project include supporting the growing digital economy and related technologies, as well as providing upwards of 1,200 construction jobs and more than 125 permanent, high-paying operational roles. Stream’s intent is to hire locally for these roles. This development design’s water usage remains low thanks to highly efficient cooling technologies, and any additional infrastructure needed to support utility usage will be paid for entirely by Stream to ensure ratepayers will not pay additional utility bills due to this development. Stream looks forward to truly becoming part of this community as a collaborative, long-term partner. We look forward to building on our strong partnership with Marion County as a community where our teams will live, work and thrive. Frequently asked questions What is a data center and why do I hear about them now? Data centers are buildings that help form a foundational layer of the U.S. economy by securely housing the essential computing power and network connectivity required for daily commerce, communication, entertainment and even essential services like hospitals and EMS. Data centers and complex IT infrastructure are among the strongest sectors in today’s digital U.S. economy due to their critical role in supporting day-to-day life and their long-term, stabilized economic value. To ensure this sector’s growth maximizes value and minimizes impact, we continually strive to deliver win-win-win outcomes as a developer that is deeply invested in the mutual wellbeing of our communities and our developments. Will this development impact our water resources? To support standard domestic uses like employee sinks and bathrooms, these buildings are projected to use a similar level of water to that of a small office building or department store. This amount is relatively small compared to the water demands of other similarly sized industrial and commercial facilities. For cooling of the IT equipment, the design uses a closed-loop cooling system, which does not require daily water consumption for cooling operations. Will my energy costs go up? No. Not only is this project studied and designed to ensure required utility capacity will not cost existing customers, but any required upgrades are planned in coordination with utility providers and are structured so that costs are not shifted to local ratepayers. Stream will finance 100% of any required utility upgrades, and this project will continue to meet all utility regulatory requirements intended to protect system reliability and affordability for the broader community. Will the data centers be loud? No — in fact, this development is projected to create fewer than 65 decibels at the perimeter of our site during the day and 45 decibels at night. For reference, 65 decibels is equivalent to the volume of a normal conversation, while 45 decibels is the equivalent of a quiet office or library. To meet this standard, Stream selects cooling equipment, enclosures and acoustic screens that prevent sound from exceeding the regulated levels. Stream Data Centers’ developments are planned and designed to meet rigorous regulations and requirements for noise, and often incorporate a range of sound reduction strategies, including: Pre- andpost-operational ambient noise studies Acoustic shields and screens Physical setbacks from surrounding properties Will this project create local jobs? Yes. This campus development is projected to create 1,200+ immediate-term construction jobs (which last years in alignment with construction timelines) and upwards of 125 permanent, high-tech roles (IT, HVAC, Electrical), not including vendors (e.g., lawncare, security) . Stream’s intent is to hire all roles locally. Will the community benefit from this financially? Yes. Even with economic development incentives, Stream is excited to offer a large capital investment in Marion County. This development is projected to contribute hundreds of millions to the tax base across the life of the project. Will this development interrupt the natural environment? No adverse environmental impacts are anticipated as a result of the project. Thorough due diligence has been completed for the property, including a threatened and endangered species study, wetland delineation, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, and a cultural resources assessment. Will this development create pollution? For safety, our backup diesel generators will only run for required and scheduled testing and in the event of an emergency if there is a loss of utility power. Our efficient design also significantly reduces the required number of backup generators compared to other facilities of this size, ensuring a minimized carbon footprint. Will you develop in our community and then leave the campus behind? No — Stream, as a company, is committed to investing in the communities where our people build, operate, live and work. We strive to be a strong and trusted partner to our community that continues to add value by ensuring strong due diligence before any shovel meets dirt and by looking for opportunities to continue adding to the community long after operations commence. Data center campuses like this are unique compared to other traditional commercial industrial developments, which can experience high tenant turnover and seasonable occupancy. Due in part to the long lifespan of these developments (they are built to remain safe, efficient and strong for upwards of 30 years), we choose our development sites with the utmost care, seek to hire locally and work collaboratively with local communities to create ongoing enrichment programs where possible. Is this an AI data center? Stream develops and operates facilities that can support a variety of applications, including those across cloud and AI. While we build and maintain the physical facility, our customers determine what technology is placed inside and what workloads they process. At this time, the ultimate use of the facility has not been determined. Importantly, from a community perspective, there is no fundamental difference in how these facilities are designed, permitted or operated based on the type of computing equipment installed inside or the workloads that equipment processes. Our data centers, whether supporting enterprise, cloud or AI applications, are built to the same world-class standards for safety, security, environmental compliance and minimized community impact. Who we are Delivering operational excellence Stream Data Centers has been providing data center services in communities throughout the United States since 1999. Key to Stream’s longevity is our focus on operational excellence and corporate responsibility and our reputation for close, collaborative partnerships. While data center developments add value to our communities well beyond the construction phase, responsible design and operations standards ensure Stream facilities add even greater efficiency, safety and sustainability to the entire project lifecycle. An enduring partner Making long-term investments in communities Our projects have decades-long operating horizons, which drives the need for rigorous site selection and due diligence processes. Stream Data Centers thorou