AWS data center project tabled in Wilmington, Ohio - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel AWS data center project tabled in Wilmington, Ohio Planning commission argues due to a lack of information January 07, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say The Wilmington Planning Commission has tabled the site plan for an Amazon Web Services (AWS) data center in Wilmington, Ohio. As reported by Local12 , the decision was made because the commission felt it had not been provided with enough information about the project. – Google Maps This is the second time the project has been delayed, with the council postponing a vote in November 2025 . The project in question relates to a 471-acre campus located off the US 68, with its listed address as 1488 South US 68. AWS has said it will invest around $4 billion in developing the site, and will create at least 100 permanent jobs with a total annual payroll of $8bn. It will also invest $25 million in public infrastructure, including sewers, a water main, a water tower, and road improvements. According to the planning commission in the latest meeting, the studies into traffic and lighting were incomplete, the water department was missing details about pipelines, and attempts by the commission to question Amazon representatives directly did little to assuage concerns. The commission said that in answer to questions, Amazon gave mostly "non-answers," including in relation to whether PFAs would be added to the water used by the data center. The decision to table the project was unanimous after a three-hour meeting and was consistent with the city staff's recommendations. The next meeting is on January 15. Wilmington is located to the northeast of Cincinnati. AWS already has a significant presence in Ohio, operating its US East region in the state with three availability zones. Each availability zone has at least one data center, but can have multiple. In late 2024, the company said it would invest $23bn in Ohio by 2030. The company operates data centers across Franklin and Licking counties in Ohio, is planning to build a five-building data center campus in New Albany, and has also expressed an interest in Pickaway County and shared plans to spend $2bn on a data center campus in Sunbury, Ohio . Another campus in Fayette County, Southern Ohio, is also planned by AWS. News of the data centers first surfaced in November last year, with the company acquiring 590 acres in Jefferson Township in August 2025 . Local filings suggest the campus could go live in 2026. This year so far has seen AWS get approval for another campus in Ohio, located in Marysville , and in October 2025 , AWS secured a tax break for a $3bn data center in Sidney, Ohio. More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 12 Mar 2026 Sponsored Standardize to accelerate, or get left behind Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 06 Nov 2025 Digital Realty buys land in Los Angeles for 32MW data center Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 1588 South US 68 AWS Amazon Web Services Ohio Wilmington Comments