Centra breaks ground on second Reno data center - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Centra breaks ground on second Reno data center Company starts work on 12MW RNO2 facility November 24, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say US data center firm Centra has broken ground on a new facility in Reno, Nevada. The company this week announced work has started on RNO2, a 12MW facility located in downtown Reno at 265 Keystone. Ground-breaking news from Reno – Centra The 90,000 sq ft (8,361 sqm) facility is scheduled to launch in early Q2 2026. It will support air cooling as well as liquid cooling for high-density workloads. The closed-loop cooling system will also utilize free-cooling for part of the year. “RNO2 represents a major step forward in strengthening Reno’s role as a critical interconnection hub for the Western US,” said Shelly Greco, VP of sales at Centra. “This facility reflects our commitment to building the modern, sustainable infrastructure that today’s AI-driven and cloud-connected businesses depend on.” Centra was previously known as Deep Edge, prior to rebranding and expanding its footprint across the US. The company is backed by Columbia Capital and secured $230 million in funding earlier this month. Centra also manages the meet-me-room/carrier hotel at 200 S Virginia in Reno , Nevada, which includes a data center on the first floor. The company acquired the 340 Cumberland carrier hotel in Portland, Maine, in 2022. It also operates a facility in Charlotte , North Carolina, and another in the Borden Building in Columbus, Ohio. The company recently broke ground on a new 12MW facility in Minneapolis, Minnesota. More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 18 Feb 2026 JLL: Texas to become world’s largest data center market by 2030 Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in Colocation & Wholesale NTT Global Data Centers Guide to India data center expansion 06 Feb 2026 UAE launches AI efficiency pilot across Khazna data centers in partnership with Phaidra and Agility 09 Dec 2025 From the mushroom cloud to cloud computing - the allure of extreme data storage Tags 265 Keystone Centra Nevada RNO2 Reno Comments