2GW data center could come to Socorro, New Mexico - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 2GW data center could come to Socorro, New Mexico But plans are tentative April 14, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say A 2GW data center could be built in Socorro, a city in central New Mexico. At the March 25 board meeting of the Socorro Electric Cooperative, developer Green Data floated the idea of developing a 10GW solar farm that would power a 2GW data center according to a report by El Defensor Chieftain . – Green Data The project would cover 10,000 acres west of Socorro Peak and north of Highway 60, and could potentially make use of small modular reactors. Green Data CEO Jason Bak has said that the company would provide power infrastructure, leaving the provision of compute to its tenants. Bak added that the company’s plan was to begin construction this year, with a four to five-year completion timeline. If permitted, this would be the largest data center in New Mexico. Although no formal application has yet been submitted, some have already begun to voice opposition to the proposed project, raising concerns about the data center’s impact on the local environment and community. Around 80 people have responded to a Facebook event called “No Data Center in Socorro” which is set to take place at a local bar. Green Data says that it is “developing a portfolio of data centers paired with renewable energy generation and storage solutions,” according to its website . CEO Jason Bak was formerly the CEO and chairman of Finavera Renewables, a Canadian wind farm company. Green Data should not be confused with the Swiss firm Green Datacenter . More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 23 Mar 2026 Sponsored Constructing data centers against the clock Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 31 Mar 2026 Hyperscale Data purchases 48.5 acres in southwest Michigan to expand data center campus Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Green Data Jason Bak New Mexico Socorro Socorro County Socorro Electric Cooperative Comments