Council Bluffs, Iowa – Google Data Center Location Council Bluffs, Iowa Since 2007, we’ve been collaborating with the Council Bluffs community to create a digital hub that’s sustainable and innovative. With our neighbors filling the many roles of technicians, engineers, security, and more at our data centers, we’re proud to call the Silicon Prairie our home. Our investments in the community and collaborations with local organizations allow us to support the people and small businesses that make Council Bluffs a great place to grow together. For general inquiries, email us at councilbluffs@google.com Join our team Google is proud to hire from the community and support the people who keep our data centers running at their best. View careers Get to know Council Bluffs’ data centers Our new agreement with NextEra Energy will bring Iowa’s only nuclear plant back to life Read more How Google is driving a new era of American innovation in Iowa. Read more Where innovation meets inspiration Read more “Google Data Centers: Helping grow the Iowa economy” Watch video “We Know Who’s Here and Why” Listen to podcast 1 / Why we chose Council Bluffs A skilled local workforce Businesses that specialize in addressing data center needs Well-developed optical electric infrastructure Measuring our investment: Council Bluffs by the numbers View the Iowa Impact Study: 2024 View the Google Economic Report Investment to date $6.8B+ Google has invested more than $6.8 billion in Iowa since building our data center in Council Bluffs in 2007. Established in Iowa 2007 We have called Iowa home since 2007. Economic activity generated $2.1B In 2024, Google helped provide $2.1 billion of economic activity for thousands of Iowa businesses, nonprofits, publishers, creators, and developers. Iowans trained on digital skills 101K+ We’ve collaborated with over 130 organizations in Iowa to train more than 101,000 Iowans on digital skills. Wildflowers bloom around cooling towers at our Council Bluffs, Iowa, data center. Council Bluffs mayor, Matt Walsh, speaks to an audience about Google's new investment in a data center, a collaboration with The Great Outdoors Foundation, and contributions to water quality programs in Southwest Iowa. Supporting local initiatives $1.3M Google collaborated with the Great Outdoors Foundation and the Iowa Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship to contribute $1.3 million to support a 47-site grade stabilization project to improve the quality of water flowing into the Missouri River, the Mississippi River, and the Gulf of Mexico — all of which are critical to vibrant communities across our nation. Milestones of progress 2007 Google invests $600 million in Council Bluffs, Iowa, for a data center. 2012 Google announces an additional Council Bluffs data center. 2015 Google announces expansion of our Council Bluffs data centers. 2024 Google announces continued expansion of our Council Bluffs data centers. 1 / Discover more about data centers Operating sustainably Where the Internet Lives podcast Discovering Data Centers animated series Photo gallery