Global Data Center Locations | Aligned Data Centers Skip to content Global Reach, Local Advantage Data Centers Across the Americas & Beyond Discover our portfolio of AI-ready, sustainable facilities, strategically positioned for low-latency connectivity, renewable power access, and scalable infrastructure. Growing Together A Strategic Land & Community Approach Our locations provide the speed and scale our customers need, while our long-term investments ensure we are a good neighbor committed to community growth. Go Live Faster Our strategic approach to land, power, and community partnerships is designed to deliver unmatched speed to market. Advanced Modular Infrastructure (AMI) By leveraging off-site manufacturing, we reduce timelines and deliver unmatched speed and quality. Strengthening Local Communities Our localized approach listens to neighbors, respects values, and invests in infrastructure that supports communities. Strategic Capital Backing Backed by a strong capital structure, we have the flexibility to fuel our sustained growth and deliver industry-leading solutions. Location Matters Markets Built for Long-Term Success Aligned selects regions where infrastructure growth is possible, and power, people, and performance intersect. Strategic Access to Land and Energy Talent & Technology Ecosystems Speed to Delivery & Strategic Zoning & Regulatory Edge Discover Scalable Data Infrastructure Built for You Take the first step towards a scalable and efficient data center tailored to your needs Get Expert Advice Manage Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept Deny View preferences Save preferences View preferences {title} {title} {title} Manage consent