Large data center campus planned outside Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Large data center campus planned outside Atlanta, Georgia Project will span more than 1,190,000 sq ft May 23, 2024 By Niva Yadav Have your say A data center campus has been proposed outside of Atlanta in Fairburn, Georgia, DCD can report. According to state documents , Bohannon Road Venture LLC has submitted a proposal to develop 1.19 million sq ft (110,500 sqm) of data center space, spanning three buildings on a 59-acre site. Proposed site of the Fairburn Technology Center – Google Maps The project - dubbed Fairburn Technology Center - is located at 8125 Bohannon Drive in Fulton County and is expected to be completed by 2028. In order for the development to go ahead, the site will have to be rezoned for industrial use. The property is currently zoned for agricultural use. The company behind Bohannon Road Venture LLC is unclear at this time. The documents have been filed by law firm Troutman Pepper Strategies. BizJournal reports the LLC is part of Strategic Real Estate Partners. Atlanta is a major data center hub with operators including Microsoft, CoreSite, QTS, DataBank, Flexential Switch, DC Blox, Edged Energy, Stack, T5, Vantage, and EdgeConneX. Nearby in Henry County, just south of Atlanta, another large data center campus was proposed earlier this month . Details of the project have also been minimal. Earlier this month , Georgia’s state governor vetoed a bill that would have paused tax breaks for data centers in Georgia. Georgia has given data center operators an exemption from the state’s sales tax since 2018. Companies receive a tax break if they hit certain thresholds relating to investment and job creation. The exemptions were recently extended to 2033 . More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 09 Feb 2026 AtNorth files to expand planned data center campus in Kouvola, Finland Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 19 Feb 2026 Sharon AI lists on Nasdaq stock exchange in $125m IPO Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Georgia 8125 Bohannon Drive Strategic Real Estate Partners Bohannon Road Venture LLC Fairburn Fairburn Technology Center Fulton County Atlanta Comments