Archbald residents unite against unanswered questions on data centers Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 48 ° Fri 67 ° Sat 46 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY Archbald residents unite against unanswered questions on data centers by Hannah Poggi Wed, November 12, 2025 at 11:07 PM Updated Thu, November 13, 2025 at 4:48 PM 4 VIEW ALL PHOTOS Archbald residents unite against unanswered questions on data centers Comment on this story 0 Comment Share story Share topics: Archbald Data centers Zoning ordinance Borough council Transparency Protest Community Neighborhoods ARCHBALD, LACKAWANNA CO. — Chanting shoulder to shoulder, Archbald borough residents gathered in protest ahead of a borough council meeting on November 12. Last week, FOX56 reported that Archbald’s Borough Manager addressed the controversy surrounding a proposed data center zoning ordinance that failed to reach a vote. He noted the current drafted ordinance remains with the council—whether they choose to act on it or not. In frustration over what they call a lack of progress in stopping data centers, resident Erika Dutka said the community shouldn’t give up until they get clear answers. “So, we are not losing hope. A lot of people have been saying it's a done deal. It was done behind our backs, behind closed doors a long time ago. There's nothing we can do about it except accept our fate. That is fine. They can continue with like zoning and going back and forth with that. Nobody will give us real answers. So, at this point, it's less about fighting the borough and more about trying to get recognition locally, nationally, trying to find somebody that can help us,” said Dutka. Inside the borough building, residents filled the room, sharing concerns about the impact of data centers. Justin Healey called on council to be transparent and collaborate with the community’s already drafted zoning amendment. “You can continue to delay, deflect, and defend the indefensible. Or you could take responsibility, acknowledge the flaws, and move forward with the resident-drafted amendment. Because the people in this room, and the ones that can’t even fit through the doors tonight, are done being misled. Do what your own ordinance, your own comprehensive plan, and your own conscious demands. And adopt the amendment that actually defends this borough. Because if you won’t, the people will,” said Healey. A resident rallied the crowd over the council’s rejected zoning amendment, leaving residents questioning protections for their neighborhoods. “After the overlay failed to receive a second motion, we thought a new amendment would be open right away. And we’d be getting to work on something that has everybody’s best interest in mind. But your loyalty to that specific overlay is a concerning red flag. And should make everyone question, why,” said an Archbald resident. “Why do you want to exploit those specific overlay regions? That allow them in our neighborhoods, near our parks, near our children,” said an Archbald resident. Council member Erin Owen questioned whether there’s a plan moving forward, saying the issue has dragged on. A council member responded, saying that the pending ordinance process is lengthy and must restart if any changes are made. “When that ordinance is drafted, it has to go to the planning commissions, the Archbald Planning Commission, the Lackawanna County Regional Planning Commission. They have 30 days. Sometimes they take the 30 days, sometimes they don’t. They have 30 days to provide input back to the borough. Once you have that, you have to have a public hearing on that ordinance,” said Archbald council member. Trending Wren Kitchens abruptly closes U.S. showrooms, including Wilkes-Barre Twp. location Wren Kitchens has closed its U.S. showrooms, including its location at 3330 Wilkes Barre Twp Commons, Wilkes-Barre, according to a message posted on the company Man charged after alleged threat at Luzerne County golf course A Carbon County man is facing charges after police say he threatened a couple during an incident at a Luzerne County golf course.Butler Township Police were cal Biological aunt charged with homicide in death of missing 14-year-old La’Niyah Clark In a months-long investigation that is now reaching its conclusion, new details have been released in the tragic case of 14-year-old La’Niyah Clark.Bobbiejo Et Lackawanna County solicitor Paul Walker resigns, citing leadership dispute Lackawanna County Solicitor Paul Walker has resigned from his position, citing what he described as internal disagreements and a lack of communication surround Man arrested after alleged indecent exposure incident near Northumberland Co. playground A man is facing charges following an alleged indecent exposure incident near a playground in Northumberland County, according to Pennsylvania State Police.Troop NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 6 City-run Pittston food pantry sees record demand as nearly 140 families sign up 7 Warm weather drives crowds to The Snack Shack in Wilkes-Barre 6 Safe Monroe’s 17th Annual Gala returns Friday, honoring survivors and support services 3 Wren Kitchens abruptly closes U.S. showrooms, including Wilkes-Barre Twp. location