AWS: Madison County Mega Site Campus Data Center Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset Latest Podcast Street Address Interested in this information? Contact us Operational Fully operational facility Operated by: Mississippi State Southeast US Region United States Country North America Region Americas Region AWS: Madison County Mega Site Campus Short Code: Madison 1 Year Built: 2025 Lot Size: 850 acres Sites on this Campus: Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset &blk14;&blk14;&blk14;&blk14;&blk14;&blk14;&blk14; Login to view SqFt Total Building Size &blk14;&blk14;&blk14;&blk14; Request Dataset MW Total Power Amazon Web Services (AWS) is investing $10 billion to build two data center complexes, marking the single largest capital investment in Mississippi’s history. The two hyperscale data center complexes will have sites outside of Canton at the Madison County Mega Site and on the Costas Property west of Tougaloo College and near County Line Road in Ridgeland. The Amazon data centers spread out over 1700 acres on two sites The electricity required for this project is the equivalent of powering 700,000 homes per year Construction is expected to be completed by 2027 Read more Map and Nearby Locations: This Facility Amazon AWS Sites Nearby Facilities Click to see the map Baxtel Sites 0 sites × No Baxtel sites in current view Distance Site About 0.12 miles Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset This facility is part of Amazon's Madison County Mega Site Campus in Mississippi. 0.21 miles Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset This facility is part of Amazon's Madison County Mega Site Campus in Mississippi. 0.24 miles Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset This facility is part of Amazon's Madison County Mega Site Campus in Mississippi. 0.33 miles Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset This facility is part of Amazon's Madison County Mega Site Campus in Mississippi. 0.33 miles Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset This facility is part of Amazon's Madison County Mega Site Campus in Mississippi. 0.61 miles Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset 0.63 miles Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset This facility is part of Amazon's Madison County Mega Site Campus in Mississippi. 13.74 miles Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset Amazon Web Services (AWS) plans to invest $10 billion to build two data center complexes at industrial parks in Madison County, an area just north of the state’s capital, Jackson. 13.78 miles Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset 13.81 miles Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset 13.85 miles Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset 14.09 miles Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset 14.22 miles Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset 14.33 miles Hyperscale Data Center Request Dataset No Photos Operated by: Amazon Web Services (AWS) is a subsidiary of Amazon.com that provides on-demand cloud computing platforms to individuals, companies and governments, on a paid subscription basis. Read more View Company 564 Facilities 0 Markets Amazon Web Services (AWS) is planning to invest $429.8 million in a data center near Taloja in Navi Mumbai, India. The cloud provider has applied to the State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority for environmental clearance for the project, which is planned for a 49-acre site.According to... April 14, 2026 Amazon AWS A 648-acre data center has been proposed in Clarksdale, northern Mississippi. On Monday, city officials held an informational meeting on a potential project planned for agricultural land between the Sunflower River and Tallahatchie Street.The city’s board of commissioners had considered a rezo... March 17, 2026 Mississippi Elon Musk’s AI company xAI has received approval to install 41 natural gas turbines at a site in Mississippi, generating up to 1.2GW to power its local data centers.The turbines, which will be installed at a former Duke Energy power plant site in Southaven, will be used to power xAI’s Colossus... March 11, 2026 Mississippi Amazon Web Services (AWS) is reportedly planning a $750 million data center project in Clinton, Mississippi. While the company has not been officially confirmed, WLBT3 reports that a quitclaim deed shows Amazon acquired the 99-acre site on February 13.The data center will be located at 1001 In... March 06, 2026 Amazon AWS The governor of Mississippi hit back at calls to pause data center construction across the US. Governor Tate Reeves claimed that those seeking a data center moratorium were "yearning to submit our society to outside forces: mobs, international councils, or communist China.""I understand indivi... February 24, 2026 Mississippi Read More News Executive SummaryIn this episode recorded live at PTC 26, Eric Bell speaks with Sharad Agarwal, CEO of Sify Infinit Spaces, the data center arm of Sify Technologies. Sharad Agarwal explains how Sify built India’s first commercial Tier III data center in 20... Mar 12, 2026 Eric Bell World In this episode, we sit down with Cliff Federspiel, President and CTO of Vigilent, to explore how AI driven control systems are reshaping data center cooling, energy use, and operational reliability. Cliff shares his journey from academic research and HVAC controls... Feb 05, 2026 Eric Bell World In this Baxtel Podcast episode, Eric Bell sits down with Wes Cummins, CEO of Applied Digital, to unpack how hyperscale AI data centers are being built far from traditional metros. Wes shares why power availability and fiber routes matter more than population densit... Jan 15, 2026 Eric Bell Applied Digital In this episode, Eric Bell sits down with Russell Fletcher to unpack what it really means to operate a modern power grid in Texas. He is a Russell shares how ERCOT keeps generation and load balanced at 60 Hz, why transmission congestion matters as ... Jan 05, 2026 Eric Bell Dallas Nick Kruse is a chemical engineer turned energy entrepreneur who sits at the nexus of power and compute, and in this episode he explains why behind-the-meter natural gas generation is becoming a long-term strategy for large data centers rather than a temporary brid... Sep 04, 2025 Eric Bell Texas See More Podcasts No Documents Ready to Level up Your Data Center Strategy? Message Us Book Consultation