Union County to consider 'Project Alpaca' data center proposal Skip to content by: RipLey Simone Posted: Apr 15, 2026 / 09:03 PM EDT Updated: Apr 16, 2026 / 05:42 PM EDT SHARE UNION COUNTY, S.C. (WSPA) — Data centers are a hot topic in Union County after a Texas-based company approached officials with a proposal to build one in the area. During a county council meeting Tuesday, a representative from Volt Edge Energy presented ‘Project Alpaca.’ The project is 49-megawatt data center campus, and if approved, would be situated at the Midway Green Industrial Park . Project Alpaca rendering (Volt Edge Energy) According to company representative Ankit Joshi, the project would be a $410 million private investment, creating millions in new tax revenue for the county. The development would also create 500+ construction jobs, scaling down to more than 50 high-wage jobs once operational. But, less than a day later, the proposal garnered mixed reviews. With previous data center projects in the Upstate , most residents have not been in favor of the development. Braeden Jones is one of the many Union County residents in opposition to the data center. He started a petition which gained has hundreds of signatures . “Right now, we’re trying to get the attention of the county and city council. We want them to know that we do not want this,” he said. “Everybody’s concerned about our water, about the noise pollution.” In a Project Alpaca fact sheet shared with 7NEWS, the company said the data center would use a closed-loop cooling system with “a specialized coolant mixture” sourced from Texas, not the local water system. Project Alpaca Fact Sheet Download Jones, who has worked at facilities using the closed-loop system, said local water will be used and will emit an odor. He added that the county’s water has been a topic of concern for residents especially with the additional effects a data center would have on water systems. Jones also vocalized a need for transparency from Volt Edge, who didn’t specify if the data center would be used for AI or as a storage facility data center. He encouraged residents to sign the petition to make their voices heard, and rally together in a similar fashion as anti-data center groups in Spartanburg, especially as some council members are up for reelection. “When Spartanburg had their [council] meeting, the guy who was reporting on it called it the most energetic, rambunctious meetings he’s ever been a part of,” Jones explained. “I feel like as long as we can match their energy, come together as a whole community, I feel like we could [stop the center].” Dalton Sinclair, a longtime resident, told 7NEWS he’s on the fence about the data center because of concerns for raised utility bills. “As far as water and electric are concerned, if my utilities are going to go up, is the county government going to lower my taxes, such as property taxes, to help offset the rise in utility bills?” he questioned. “Especially since they’re claiming that they’re going to gain tens of millions in revenue from this data center. Because in my eyes, this data center only benefits the government of Union in terms of direct tax revenue.” Sinclair continued that as a taxpayer, he’s not seeing the benefit to his quality of life because of a data center being built in his hometown. “I can’t go shop there, I’m not getting a free subscription upgrade to ChatGPT, the taxpayer gains nothing from this. But one thing is certain the future is coming, whether we like it or not,” he said. The proposed site for the data center would already be supplied with power capacity from Lockhart Power Company, due to businesses that have left the industrial park. Lockhart Power president Bryan Stone told 7NEWS there wouldn’t be any electric rate hikes for customers if the center is built. “This will not impact anybody’s access to power,” he said. “Anybody who’s a customer of ours will not be impacted one bit by this company coming to Union County.” When asked if he thought the company would require additional energy, Stone said the data center developer does not have a second phase planned. However, for Andrew East, a resident and technology worker, he wants to see transparency and promises that the company’s plan will not require future upgrades. “Is the infrastructure to support this facility already in place, or are upgrades going to be required? Because this can cost millions of dollars. Who’s going to bear any of the costs if there’s any subsidized industrial rates for this company? Who is going to pay for that if that’s the case? That’s my big question,” East said. He said efforts should be made to ensure the data center employ county locals. “How do we guarantee that these jobs they’re going to create are going to stay here in Union County? Because there’s multiple instances where that hasn’t happened in the past with other data centers,” he explained. “I just want to see those jobs stay here, and I think there are qualified people working and living in the county that can fill those positions.” East also has concerns about the noise pollution that data centers are known to produce. As he lives near the industrial park, he expressed worries for neighbors whose properties line up with the site. Union County Council will hosting a public hearing for the proposal on May 12 at 5 p.m. at the Main Street Junction. It’s important to specify, the information shared during the meeting was a proposal — not a first reading of an ordinance. Council will host the public hearing, then ordinance readings. In Union County, an ordinance must be read three times before being approved. If given the greenlight, Volt Edge said they would break ground at the end of 2026, beginning operations by the end of 2027. Add as preferred source on Google ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews World News Japan warns of slightly increased risk of mega-quake Iran may reclose Strait of Hormuz as US maintains … Europe to run out of jet fuel in about 6 weeks: official Artemis II astronauts rocket toward moon, a day around … Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor arrested on suspicion … Pledge calls for suspension of war for Winter Olympics Maduro strikes defiant tone as he professes innocence … Tsunami after magnitude 7.5 quake strikes off Japan Hong Kong fire probe reveals unsafe netting Louvre museum to increase ticket price for non-EU … Dozens more bodies recovered after Hong Kong blaze At least 75 dead as Hong Kong firefighters battle … At least 36 dead in Hong Kong fire, hundreds missing King Charles III to evict Prince Andrew from royal … Paris prosecutor: 2 suspects in Louvre jewel heist … 80 miners rescued safely in Dominican Republic Ukrainian detained in Poland over 2022 Nord Stream … Sacred religious sites becoming a resort Trump’s ‘both sides’ approach to Israel, Iran comes … President Trump says ceasefire between Iran and Israel … Orcas spotted using seaweed as grooming tools Trump announces ceasefire plans between Israel, Iran US citizens urged t