NorthWestern Energy Signs Letter of Intent to Serve Quantica Infrastructure’s Montana Data Center Development Oops, something went wrong Skip to navigation Skip to main content Skip to right column This is a paid press release. Contact the press release distributor directly with any inquiries. NorthWestern Energy Signs Letter of Intent to Serve Quantica Infrastructure’s Montana Data Center Development Business Wire July 30, 2025 3 min read NWE SIOUX FALLS, S.D. & BUTTE, Mont., July 30, 2025 --( BUSINESS WIRE )--NorthWestern Energy Group, Inc. d/b/a NorthWestern Energy (Nasdaq: NWE) today announced it has signed a letter of intent to provide energy services for Quantica Infrastructure’s proposed data center development in Montana. NorthWestern Energy anticipates that service could be provided through its regulated business, pending further evaluation and regulatory considerations. This approach could improve cost efficiency by spreading the fixed costs of operating Montana-based energy infrastructure across a broader customer base. The projected Phase 1 energy service load is 500 megawatts, with phased growth to 1 gigawatt. Initial electric service could begin as early as 2026. The expected expansion to full Phase 1 of the data center development is 2030, depending on the progress of permitting, infrastructure development, and other planning activities. "We’re actively working with Quantica to optimize the transmission infrastructure and generation resources needed to support this project," said Brian Bird, President and CEO of NorthWestern Energy. "Montana’s clean energy portfolio, reliable grid, and competitive rates make it an attractive location for new industries. This collaboration reflects our commitment to innovation, economic development, and delivering high-quality energy services." "We are excited to collaborate with NorthWestern to bring a shovel-ready, network-ready site for hyperscalers and AI that utilizes resilient power backed by dedicated renewable energy," said John Chesser, CEO of Quantica Infrastructure. "A project of this scale will create meaningful employment opportunities along with improvements in telecommunications and power infrastructure for Montanans." NorthWestern Energy is currently conducting a transmission study to assess how best to meet Quantica’s energy needs. Quantica has several generation projects in development, and a full energy supply solution would require a balanced portfolio of new resources—including both renewable and on-demand generation—along with infrastructure that integrates with the existing grid. This approach would help ensure reliability for Quantica’s tenants while supporting grid stability and cost control for all customers. "The scale of Quantica’s projected energy demand presents an opportunity to improve overall system efficiency," said Bleau LaFave, Vice President of Asset Management and Business Development at NorthWestern Energy. "By delivering more kilowatt-hours across our system, we can better utilize our infrastructure and potentially reduce per-unit costs." Story Continues This project marks a meaningful step forward for Montana’s economy and tech sector, underscoring the value of dependable energy service in drawing new investment to the state. Follow us on Facebook and LinkedIn and Instagram : @NorthWesternEnergy NorthWestern Energy - Delivering a Bright Future NorthWestern Energy Group, Inc., doing business as NorthWestern Energy, provides essential energy infrastructure and valuable services that enrich lives and empower communities while serving as long-term partners to our customers and communities. We work to deliver safe, reliable, and innovative energy solutions that create value for customers, communities, employees, and investors. We do this by providing low-cost and reliable service performed by highly-adaptable and skilled employees. We provide electricity and / or natural gas to approximately 842,100 customers in Montana, South Dakota, Nebraska, and Yellowstone National Park. Our operations in Montana and Yellowstone National Park are conducted through our subsidiary, NW Corp, and our operations in South Dakota and Nebraska are conducted through our subsidiary, NWE Public Service. We have provided service in South Dakota and Nebraska since 1923 and in Montana since 2002. Quantica Infrastructure Quantica Infrastructure delivers integrated digital infrastructure solutions by combining land, sustainable power, and resilient network solutions for AI, hyperscale, and data center operators across the U.S. For more information, see quanticainfra.com . Quantica is backed by EnCap Investments, a leading provider of growth capital to the independent sector of the U.S. energy industry since 1988. View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250730380125/en/ Contacts NorthWestern Energy Investor Relations Contact: Travis Meyer (605) 978-2967 travis.meyer@northwestern.com NorthWestern Energy Media Contact: Jo Dee Black (866) 622-8081 jodee.black@northwestern.com Quantica Infrastructure Media Contact: iMiller Public Relations (914) 315-6424 quantica@imillerpr.com Terms and Privacy Policy CA Privacy Notice Your Privacy Choices More Info