Data Center could use more power than DIA, prompts worries about bills Consumer Money Science and Tech Actions Facebook Tweet Email Data Center could use more power than DIA, leaving neighbors worried about power and water bills The 180,000-square foot building currently under construction is located in the Elyria-Swansea neighborhood. Prev Next A new AI Data Center currently under construction in the Elyria-Swansea neighborhood could use more power than DIA. By: Allie Jennerjahn Posted and last updated DENVER — A Data Center is under construction in the Elyria-Swansea neighborhood, and some community members have questions about the impact it could have to their water and power bills, as well as the environment. CoreSite — developers on the project — said the campus, which includes two other buildings throughout Denver, could use up to 75 megawatts of power. For context, Denver International Airport uses around 45 megawatts of power. The 180,000-square foot building currently under construction is located in a neighborhood historically known for being under served. "It’s maybe not the most valuable use of resources," Denver resident Mikey Savage said. "I think they’re an environmental concern." AI Data Center could use more power than DIA, prompts worries about bills Savage is in school right now, and has written a paper on resources used to supply data centers. "They do require an insane amount of energy," Savage said. "They also take up a lot of water to cool the data centers." A spokesperson for the Denver Community and Planning Development said the site plan was approved in March of this year. CoreSite leaders said the site will bring more jobs to the area, and deliver more than $200 million in tax revenue for the city over 20 years. It's the long-term impacts that people like Derek McCoy are worried about. Denver7 "I don't know that there's transparency or awareness within the community around 'what is this going to do to our energy bills? What is this going to do to our already degraded air quality and water quality within these areas?'" McCoy said. McCoy is the executive director of Groundworks Denver. He said regulations for centers like this are scarce because data centers like this often include Artifical Intelligence (AI), and its use is so new. "Is there going to be any sort of supplemental income based off of the earnings of this to support community," McCoy said. "How can we partner with government to be able to make sure that the community's needs are getting met in this process that maybe they didn't have choice, but is there any way that that can be mitigated the damage towards them?" In a statement, a spokesperson for CoreSite said the developer, "builds co-location data centers, which house many tenants in one building for a variety of tech needs. Hyperscale data centers on the other hand are the ones you're seeing built specifically for AI purposes and are typically built by and house one company within the building." CoreSite leaders said our digital world and day-to-day needs like emergency services wouldn't function without data centers. Their goal is to have the newest site available in 2026. Denver7 Denver7 | Your Voice: Get in touch with Allie Jennerjahn Denver7’s Allie Jennerjahn covers stories that have an impact in all of Colorado’s communities, but specializes in reporting on crime, corruption and ways to protect your family. If you’d like to get in touch with Allie, fill out the form below to send her an email. First Name Last Name Email Phone What do you want Allie to know? I'm not a robot Submit