432MW data center campus eyed in Virginia’s Data Center Alley - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 432MW data center campus eyed in Virginia’s Data Center Alley Regency housing community looking to sell up to developer March 20, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A new data center development could be coming to the heart of Data Center Alley in Virginia. DCD understands the Regency neighborhood in Ashburn, Loudoun County, is in discussions to sell the development to a data center developer once planning permission is in place. – Google Maps Regency is a residential community in the heart of Data Center Alley, comprising around 150 homes. Located off Waxpool Road and Ashburn Village Boulevard, the development is close to a number of existing and planned data centers. DataBank and Sabey facilities lie to the north, an Aligned facility to the east, and a Digital Realty campus to the south. A CloudHQ development is planned along the southeast side. Site plans seen by DCD suggest up to six data center buildings could be developed across the 130-acre site, each offering 72MW. Power to the site would likely come in the mid-2030s. The Regency HOA has reportedly set up the Community Works, LLC affiliate for negotiations and will take the project through the entitlement process before a sale is closed. One of the major US cloud providers is set to lease the site, but is working with a data center developer that will lease the site to the hyperscaler. Both the hyperscaler and the developer that DCD understands are involved have an existing major presence in the area, but those questioned have denied their involvement when asked for comment. Residents are reportedly being offered around $4.4 million per acre, suggesting a total purchase price of around $576 million. Attempts to contact representatives of the Regency HOA have received no reply. Loudoun County representatives said no applications to redevelop the Regency community have yet been submitted for consideration. DCD understands an application could be submitted later this year or early next year. Rumours that the Regency was being eyed for data center development surfaced on social media back in 2024. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection HP SitePrint for data centers 13 Mar 2026 Frustration grows as data center project in limbo in Bergamo, Italy Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 08 Dec 2025 CyrusOne files to expand data center campus outside Waco, Texas Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Ashburn Community Works,LLC Loudoun County Northern Virginia Regency Virginia Comments