BREAKING: Amazon proposes third data center campus in Louisa County Engage Louisa Subscribe Sign in BREAKING: Amazon proposes third data center campus in Louisa County Tammy Purcell Jun 05, 2025 10 9 4 Share Subscribe Share Engage Louisa is a nonpartisan newsletter that keeps folks informed about Louisa County government. We believe our community is stronger and our government serves us better when we increase transparency, accessibility, and engagement. Amazon proposes 7.2 million square feet of data center buildings in central Louisa County Amazon Web Services (AWS) has applied to build its third data center campus in Louisa County’s Technology Overlay District (TOD). In an application filed with the county in mid-May, the tech giant requests permission to construct up to 7.2 million square feet of data center buildings on 1,370 acres just north of the Northeast Creek Reservoir in central Louisa. ( land use application ) The sprawling, agriculturally-zoned tract (A-2), which is currently used for timber production, stretches from just south of Davis Highway (Route 22) to just north of Jefferson Highway (Route 33). It nearly touches Kennon Road (Route 665) at its southeastern end and School Bus Road (Route 767) near northwestern end. The property is owned by former Louisa District Supervisor Eric Purcell, his sister, Virginia Purcell and their father, attorney and developer Charles Purcell, via Fisher Chewning, LC. Data centers are large warehouse-like facilities that house the backbone of the internet, enabling cloud computing and other web-based services. They require vast amounts of electricity to keep their servers and networking equipment humming and, typically, large quantities of water for cooling. To support the campus, AWS plans to work with Dominion Energy and Rappahannock Electric Cooperative to build seven substations on the property, which is bifurcated by a 230-kilovolt (kV) Dominion-owned transmission line. The company could also construct water and sewage treatment plants, an elevated water storage tank, a central heating/cooling facility, a telecommunications tower, a food service facility, a security building, offices and other ancillary buildings, all of which could be permitted as accessory uses. AWS is already building two data center campuses in the TOD, a special zoning designation adopted by the board of supervisors two years ago and aimed at attracting lucrative tech sector development. One of the campuses, located at the corner of Kentucky Springs Road (Route 652) and Haley Drive (Route 700) adjacent to the North Anna Power Station, is slated for 1.7 million square feet of data centers. The other campus, planned for about 830 acres of a 1444-acre tract on the other side of Jefferson Highway just south of the reservoir, is expected to include more than two dozen data center buildings, according to county officials. Unlike those projects, which are permitted by-right, AWS’s latest proposal requires a conditional use permit (CUP). The board of supervisors last year tweaked the rules for the TOD, mandating that future tech sector development move through a public approval process. Obtaining a CUP requires a public hearing in front of the planning commission and the board of supervisors and an affirmative vote by the latter body. AWS and Louisa County’s Community Development Department will host a neighborhood meeting to discuss the proposal on Wednesday, June 11 at 4 pm in the Public Room at the Louisa County Office Building, 1 Woolfolk Ave., Louisa. The planning commission could consider the application as soon as its July 10 meeting. A closer look at the project According to AWS’s land use application, the 1370-acre campus would include up to 7.2 million square feet of data center buildings, mostly near the center of the property and surrounded by seven substations. It would leave 889 acres, or 64 percent of the property, as “open space,” including vegetative buffers, green space and stormwater management ponds. Per TOD rules, the property would feature a minimum 200-foot vegetative buffer adjacent to residential uses; a minimum 250-foot buffer for substations adjacent to agricultural uses; and a minimum 300-foot buffer for data centers adjacent to agricultural uses. Noise from the facility would be capped at 65 decibels at the property line during the day and 60 decibels at night, and buildings, excluding ventilation, cooling equipment, antennas and other appurtenances, wouldn’t be permitted to exceed 80 feet high. The application notes that while the property is skirted by residential and agricultural uses, the data center buildings are expected to be at least 850 feet from the nearest home with extensive vegetative buffers offering protections for neighbors. “An important component of this application is the Project’s preservation of existing vegetation. The Property currently contains mature pine trees, ranging in size from 2 years to 15 years old at a density of approximately 542 trees per acre. All vegetated buffers will contain these existing trees, and supplemental plantings will be provided as needed to ensure adequate screening is provided from adjoining properties,” the application says. The site’s primary access point would be off Davis Highway via Shortmans Road. AWS could potentially construct a new road parallel to Shortmans, at the western edge of the Louisa County High School/Middle School Campus, per a preliminary site plan. In addition, the property would be served by three other entrances: one off School Bus Road; another off Jefferson Highway, via Old CCC Road; and a third off Kennon Road, via Huntington East Drive. AWS says that, at full buildout, the campus would draw fewer vehicles than other large-scale industrial uses but acknowledges that it would generate significant traffic during construction. The company says the project would be built in a minimum of four phases, though it doesn’t provide a construction timeline, and that its four access points would help disperse traffic. It plans to submit a detailed traffic management plan prior to each phase of construction; implement measures to avoid construction traffic during school bus travel times; and notify county officials 48 hours prior to any large construction-related deliveries. The application doesn’t provide details on how much power the facility would use. But, according to site plans for AWS’s other projects, on-site substations can typically deliver 300 megawatts (MW) of electricity. So, seven substations could supply as much as 2.1 gigawatts (GW) of power. For perspective, North Anna’s twin Westinghouse reactors produce about 1.8 GW, enough electricity to power some 550,000 homes. The application doesn’t detail how much water the project would use or explicitly state where that water would come. But, as with AWS’s other campuses, it’s expected to be drawn from the 187-acre, publicly owned Northeast Creek Reservoir. According to a capacity study commissioned by the county two years ago, the reservoir has a safe yield capacity of 3.2 million gallons per day. It’s current users, including the Towns of Louisa and Mineral, draw about 300,000 gallons daily and 500,000 gallons at peak demand. AWS’s other campuses are expected to use, on average, 660,000 gallons of water per day, mostly to cool the data centers. That draw could soar to more than 7 million gallons at peak demand, an AWS official told the planning commission. County officials have said “peak demand” refers only to the hottest days of summer and that the campuses would rely on ambient air temperature for cooling in winter. For its latest project, the applicant says it “contemplates the use of direct, evaporative cooling for its industrial cooling requirements,” which is “more energy efficient than traditional mechanical cooling systems.” The project would also have on-site water storage “to capture water during periods of lower cooling demand” with stored water used during hotter 