New Carlisle Town Council opposes proposed $12 billion data center Skip to content Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google NEW CARLISLE, Ind. (WNDU) - The town of New Carlisle is making its position known on the newest proposed data center. Earlier this week, the town council filed a resolution opposing the proposed rezoning of the area. This comes after the Area Plan Commission for St. Joseph County voted unanimously against it , not to mention residential opposition as well . Many of their concerns involve the center’s water and electricity usage and the transformation of the current agricultural land. There’s been no vote on the actual center just yet. In fact, the next committee meeting will be next Tuesday, Oct. 28, where discussions will continue. Stay up to date on local news with WNDU on-air and online. Be sure to download the 16 News Now App and follow our YouTube page as we continue to bring you the latest coverage on this developing story. Copyright 2025 WNDU. All rights reserved. Most Read One hospitalized after crash on U.S. 20 Bypass Notre Dame unveils 2026 edition of ‘The Shirt’ Man hospitalized after being thrown from motorcycle in Elkhart County Nonverbal student suffers carpet burn after being dragged by school worker, authorities say Two arrested in multi-agency human and sex trafficking operation in Roseland New Indiana law to use levelized billing to prevent electric bill increases during extreme cold, heat Illinois passes Chicago Bears stadium bill, but team says it’s not enough Two injured in two separate shootings in South Bend Latest News Notre Dame tight end Eli Raridon drafted 95th overall in NFL Draft by New England Patriots Notre Dame wide receiver Malachi Fields drafted 74th overall in NFL Draft by New York Giants Notre Dame unveils 2026 edition of ‘The Shirt’ Man seriously injured after high-speed chase ends in crash in Berrien County Matt competes in "Dancing with Our Stars" Locals express data center concerns Mishawaka fire concerns, Miami County inmate death update, and latest with Iran Notre Dame tight end Eli Raridon drafted 95th overall in NFL Draft by New England Patriots