Starwood re-proposes data center in Alexandria, Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Starwood re-proposes data center in Alexandria, Virginia Original proposals defeated in 2022, residents ready for another scrap March 01, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Another data center dispute between residents and developers is brewing in Alexandria, Virginia. Plaza 500, at 6295 Edsall Road, is currently home to an industrial/office building dating back to the 1970s. The existing buildings at Plaza 500 – Google Maps Annandale Today (AT) reports Starwood has submitted a new site plan for a by-right data center on the property. The proposed two-story facility would span 466,000 square feet (43,290 sqm) and feature an on-site substation. Starwood acquired and previously proposed a data center development on the back in 2022 , but opposition from residents led to the project being “deferred indefinitely.” Bren Pointe residents are likely to oppose the newly submitted proposals, with Tyler Ray, president of the Bren Pointe Homeowners Association, telling AT the data center would be just 260 ft from some of the homes in the community, while the electrical substation would be less than 100 ft from some homes. A grassroots group called “Save Bren Mar from a Data Center” is urging the board of supervisors to change the data center development from a by-right project to one needing a zoning special exception. However, council officials said the site plans were likely to be approved before any moves to amend the current zoning ordinance could be completed – a process that often takes months. Starwood Capital Group is a private investment firm founded in 1991 with a focus on global real estate. The company has around $115 billion in assets under management. This year it launched a dedicated data center unit, and significant portions of its newest fund will reportedly go to data centers. The company is planning a large data center campus in Herndon, Virginia , on the site of the former Commanders NFL team (formerly the Washington Redskins). Last year, Starwood sold a Digital Realty-leased data center to GI Partners . The company also owns a significant stake in European developer Echelon . Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint Sponsored Why rigging engineers matter in prefabricated data center construction Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 03 Dec 2025 Trane acquires liquid cooling solutions provider Stellar Energy Digital Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Virginia Alexandria 6295 Edsall Road Starwood Capital Plaza 500 Save Bren Mar from a Data Center Bren Pointe Bren Pointe Homeowners Association Northern Virginia Comments