'It's very concerning to the community': Neighbors push back against proposed New Orleans East data center | wwltv.com Breaking News More ( ) » Local News 'It's very concerning to the community': Neighbors push back against proposed New Orleans East data center Residents fear the proposed project on I-10 and Read Blvd. would threaten their neighborhood’s peace and strain resources. To stream WWL TV on your phone, you need the WWL TV app. Download the WWL TV app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video NEW ORLEANS — Marilyn DeGrasse has lived in her Little Woods neighborhood of New Orleans East for about 45 years. “It’s a wonderful neighborhood, it’s quiet. We have children running around the place. We have a lot of seniors here,” said DeGrasse. When she and her neighbors received mail last month about a development project across the street from her neighborhood, she immediately felt concerned. This story continues below. More in Local From blight to renewal: Development begins at old Bywater naval base From blight to renewal: Development begins at old Bywater naval base New Orleans East residents react to data center proposal “We thought, ‘What? Data centers, those are noisy places.’ We don’t want that necessarily,” said DeGrasse. According to documents filed in the city’s safety and permits department, that data center by MS Solar Grid Data, is described as a “prefabricated office building for computers.” It would sit on two pieces of property at I-10 and Read Boulevard. “From what we’ve seen they draw a lot of electricity, and they need a lot of water to manage the equipment so it’s very concerning to the community,” said president of the East New Orleans Neighborhood Advisory Commission, Dawn Hebert. RELATED: $10B AI data center coming to Louisiana; could it spike electric bills? Hebert said because part of the proposed property is zoned residential, new zoning would be needed for it to happen. “We would like a residential neighborhood, single family homes on this property,” said Hebert. In a November letter, a representative from MS Solar Grid Data invited residents to a December meeting to talk about the project. DeGrasse was there and said her mind was not put at ease. She and her neighbors are worried about noise and light pollution, a strain on resources, property values and traffic. “We want peace and quiet in our neighborhoods. We don’t want all of those things that can disrupt our way of life,” said DeGrasse. WWL Louisiana called the representative from the meeting to get a better understanding of what that data center would look like. The number was disconnected and our emails went unanswered. “We do want economic development but we want something that would benefit the community and this definitely would not benefit this particular community,” said Hebert. Community members support the interest, but don’t want a data center across the street from their front doors. “Data centers alone are fine. They’re needed, but not in a residential neighborhood and there’s a lot of land here in New Orleans East where that kind of thing can be built,” said DeGrasse. Whether a zoning change happens will need to be determined by the Department of Safety and Permits and then approved. It’s not clear when that may happen. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out