$12 billion data center receives unfavorable recommendation Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 62 ° Sat 63 ° Sun 68 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY $12 billion data center receives unfavorable recommendation by Nick Oudhoff, WSBT 22 Reporter Tue, September 16, 2025 at 6:20 PM Updated Tue, September 16, 2025 at 7:05 PM 5 VIEW ALL PHOTOS The St. Joseph County Area Plan Commission gave an unfavorable recommendation to a proposed data center in New Carlisle. (WSBT photo) Comment on this story 1 Comment Share story Share topics: Data center St. Joseph County Unfavorable recommendation Rezoning Agriculture Construction Noise Water usage SOUTH BEND, IN (WSBT) — The St. Joseph County Area Plan Commission gave an unfavorable recommendation to a proposed data center in New Carlisle. In that meeting, multiple commission members questioned the petitioners on resources that would be used for the data center. Those petitioners were assured they’re doing what they can to protect the land they’re looking to build on. Many people voiced their concerns over the proposed rezoning ordinance. The St. Joseph County Area Plan Commission gave an unfavorable recommendation to a proposed data center in New Carlisle. (WSBT photo) The proposed $12 billion project would consist of 14 buildings within the nearly 1000-acre zone. The developer, Szczypiorski Randall & Betty, proposed the rezoning of that plot of land. It sits near New Carlisle, south of Chicago Trail, west of Spruce Road and east of Timothy Road. On Tuesday, the petitioners' legal team presented their plan to create a data center if the land is rezoned from agriculture to industrial land use. Officials plan to save a portion of the land to be used as agriculture use only. The developer is planning to have all 14 buildings 500 feet or more from Chicago Trail Road, which is further than the county requirement. If approved, construction crews would be on-site 24/7 to complete the project, leading to residents voicing concerns about noise and energy use. The proposal presentation raised more questions from the public, particularly due to the unknown amount of water usage by the data center. Officials claimed all the concerns by residents helped them uncover areas that need more attention. "This property is going to be another data center, and it's the last thing we need in Western St. Joseph County is another data center. We already know what people said that wells run dry due to construction," said Pam Claves, St. Joseph Resident. Bill Schalliol, St. Joseph County Economic Development Director said, "I think we heard a lot of things today that we expected to hear, and there were some things we didn't expect to hear. So, we meet with the developer. We already huddled up on that, and brought those things to mix, and make those things are addressed as the project moves forward.” Comment with Bubbles READ THE COMMENTS (1) This proposed ordinance to rezone the land will head to the St. Joseph County Council with an unfavorable recommendation from the Area Plan Commission. Trending Federal rescheduling of marijuana products spurs legalization debate in Indiana A major decision from the White House may have local implications.The Justice Department issued an order rescheduling certain marijuana products to a lower drug The Shirt 2026 unveiled on Notre Dame's campus Friday is a big day on the Notre Dame campus!It's the unveiling of The Shirt 2026.The unveiling is happening at 4:30 p.m. on the Library Lawn.If there's rain th Fight to get Chicago Bears to Indiana hits setback Indiana's fight to get the Chicago Bears to build a stadium in Hammond suffered a setback.The Illinois House of Representatives passed legislation that might co Bypass reopens after bad crash sends one person to hospital the bypass is back open after a bad crash sent at least one person to the hospital.It happened just after 10:00 last night in the west bound lanes near the Elm Two men arrested in human trafficking operation in Roseland Two men were arrested for soliciting a prostitute in Roseland on Thursday.The arrests were made as a part of a multi-agency operation combatting human trafficki NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 4 Middle school students explore skilled trades with electrical workers 5 Debate is growing over future of Portage Manor 3 Students urged to prioritize safety as they play Senior Assassin game 3 Two men arrested in human trafficking operation in Roseland