600MW data center could be built in Coachella, California - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 600MW data center could be built in Coachella, California But no formal application has yet been submitted April 10, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say A 600MW data center could be built in Coachella, in southern California. Developer DMK Projects is hoping to build the data center on a 240-acre land parcel at the corner of 52 Avenue and Filmore Street. A site plan for the proposed campus – City of Coachella Project documents from a City Council meeting on February 11 show that DMK intends for the data center to provide a minimum of 270MW of electrical capacity across six buildings. Although DMK has not formally submitted a planning application for the facility yet, residents have already begun to organize opposition to its construction. They say that it would place undue stress on local resources and provide little benefit to the community. According to the City of Coachella , there have been no planning commission or city council meetings scheduled to deal with the project. The city of Coachella, which lends its name to the annual music festival, is a city in southern California. Although the city is not a data center hotspot, the area has seen an influx of interest from data center developers. Imperial County, a neighboring county to the south, is currently considering whether to approve a proposal to build a 330MW data center linked to Google . That project has also attracted substantial opposition from residents, who have expressed displeasure with a perceived lack of transparency and engagement from local officials. DMK Projects provides "owner's representation and project management services for data center projects" in the US, according to the company's website. The company claims that it has managed more than 10GW in power infrastructure and delivered more than $15 billion in projects. More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 03 Feb 2026 H5 and NovaCap launch new data center platform, acquire three carrier hotels from 365 Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection Hong Kong: Asia’s connectivity hub 22 Jan 2026 Zoning amendment rejected for data center in Ransom Township, Pennsylvania Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era Tags California Coachella DMK Projects Comments