'An enormous concern': Luther residents concerned over potential data center in their town Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 68 ° Sat 84 ° Sun 88 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY 'An enormous concern': Luther residents concerned over potential data center in their town by Paige Taylor Mon, June 2, 2025 at 5:24 PM Updated Mon, June 2, 2025 at 7:23 PM Luther residents concerned over potential data center in their town. (KOKH) Comment on this story 0 Comment Share story Share topics: Data center Luther residents Water concerns Beltline Energy Land preservation Senate bill 480 Energy production Community impact LUTHER, Okla. (KOKH) — Luther residents are expressing concern over the possibility of a data center in their town. Beltline Energy made a presentation to the Luther Board of Trustees last Thursday and outlined that the project would be located on roughly 400 acres east of an OG & E power generating facility in Luther. Jenni White is a former mayor of Luther and told FOX 25 the town has had water struggles before. "I think that concerns a lot of people initially is oh gosh where is this water gonna come from," White said. White lives about a mile away from the power plant, which she said can be loud at times. "Then you'd have that on top of a data center, which the batteries can catch fire and it takes forever to put them out. Sucking the electricity," she said. "I mean it's just really an enormous concern, and people should be concerned enough to really dig into it and find our for themselves." Saundra Traywick is a Luther resident who is concerned about preserving the town's land and resources. Senate bill 480 was signed into law this legislative session to allow certain companies and individuals to produce power on their own property to avoid being regulated as a public utility. This is also a concern for Traywick. "These industries will target Oklahoma and then they could also purchase land at skyrocketing prices to put in solar and wind and produce their own energy for these industries," Traywick said. "So what that will do is price out farmers, price out people that want to go buy a few acres and move out and have a peaceful little homestead somewhere." At this time the data center is only a proposal, but White, Traywick and other residents are hoping they can keep it from happening. "Our landscape is gonna completely change if we don't step in and help us save Oklahoma's farms and ranches. That's what we're all about, preserving it for the next generation and making sure that we still have hay, we still have wheat, we still have beef and we still provide food for people instead of just energy to run AI," Traywick said. In a statement to FOX 25, Luther Mayor and Trustee Terry Arps said: Speaking for myself, as Trustee One of the Luther Board of Trustees, Beltline Energy introduced a very basic concept of a data center, without specifics, for the Board to consider. The Board and public are both compiling questions about issues of concern, to be addressed in future Board and Open Meetings, if the concept becomes a plan. FOX 25 reached out to Beltline Energy but has not heard back yet. For more local news delivered straight to your inbox, sign up for our daily newsletter by clicking here. Trending Watch: Incredible footage of tornado moving into Enid As cleanup continues across Garfield County, we're getting a look at the storms from FOX 25 viewers.On Thursday evening, at least one tornado touched down in th Vance Air Force Base closed until further notice Vance Air Force Base is closed until further notice as crews are working to restore power and water after Thursday's severe weather.Officials say, only mission- Confirmed tornado strikes Enid as severe storms sweep across Oklahoma The American Red Cross is responding to Enid to provide disaster assistance for those impacted. Police warn of scam hitting Oklahomans' phones, emails Officials are warning residents about a scam that is targeting Oklahomans across the state.The Altus Police Department has been aware of a scam circulating to r Stitt signs bill he says will eliminate Oklahoma's income tax A measure that lawmakers say will eventually eliminate Oklahoma's income tax has been signed into law.Gov. Kevin Stitt signed House Bill 4072 into law, which cr NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 7 More severe weather expected Saturday and Sunday 3 Dry mornings, but stormy evenings for OKC Memorial Marathon Weekend 5 Severe Weather Is In The Forecast For The Weekend 9 Watch: Incredible footage of tornado moving into Enid