160-acre Project Baccara is recommended for approval in Maricopa County, Arizona - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 160-acre Project Baccara is recommended for approval in Maricopa County, Arizona Still needs approval from Board of Commissioners April 13, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say A potential 160-acre data center in Arizona dubbed Project Baccara has been recommended for approval. The scheme, proposed for land at West Olive Avenue and North Bullard Avenue in Arizona's Maricopa County, was recommended for approval by the county's planning and zoning commission at a meeting last Thursday. DigitalBridge-backed developer Takanock is behind the project, and is currently applying for a military compatibility permit because of the site's proximity to the Luke Air Force Base, which is about 15 miles west of Phoenix. – Takanock This permit also requires approval from the county’s Board of Supervisors, which is set to consider the project in early May, according to a website for Project Baccara. If approved, Project Baccarra will consist of a 700MW natural gas power plant and two data centers. Documents submitted by Takanock show that each data center would span roughly one million sq ft (92,905 sqm) and be two stories high. But opposition to the project is mounting. A private Facebook group titled ‘ Project Baccara Opposition Coalition - Community Group ’ currently sports around 1,400 members, and several posts about the data center have been made in an unofficial public Facebook group for residents living in the city of Surprise, which is close to the Project Baccara site. According to Takanock, the company currently has four "active sites" in three states in the US, with 2.8GW of IT capacity and 5.3GW of generation capacity. Its website does not currently list any live data centers. The company raised $500m in June 2025 and is known to be developing in Northern Virginia . More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 20 Mar 2026 SoftBank eyes 10GW data center at former DOE nuclear enrichment site in Ohio Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 13 Jan 2026 Plans filed for six-building data center campus outside Augusta, Georgia Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive Tags Arizona DigitalBridge Luke Air Force Base Maricopa County Project Baccara Surprise Takanock Comments