Google details planned data center in Botetourt County, Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Google details planned data center in Botetourt County, Virginia Land was acquired in June 2025 March 11, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say Google has detailed its plans for a data center development in Botetourt County, Virginia. Dubbed Project Raspberry, a notice from the US Army Corps of Engineers, Norfolk district, has revealed plans for the development. – Botetourt County Set on a 343.6-acre property within the Greenfield Industrial Campus area in Daleville, Botetourt County, Virginia, Google plans to construct three data center buildings, each spanning around 300,000 sq ft (27,870 sqm), along with three substations and a 28,000 sq ft (2,600 sqm) office building. Other construction works for the site would include access roads, utilities, parking areas, and stormwater management facilities. The US Army Corps of Engineers is currently soliciting comments from the public, federal, state, and local agencies and officials, Indian Tribes, and other interested parties regarding the development. Google purchased 312 acres of the property in June 2025 , at the time for a reported $14 million for the land, with agreements to spend $4 million on community projects in Botetourt. Botetourt County is west of the city of Lynchburg near the border between Virginia and West Virginia. According to Data Center Map, the county is not currently home to any data centers. In August 2025, Google revealed it would invest $9bn in its data center footprint in Virginia. This included a new data center in Chesterfield County and the expansion of the existing facilities in Loudoun and Prince William Counties. Botetourt County was unmentioned. In Richmond, Google is developing " Project Peanut ," also a three-building campus. More in Cloud & Hyperscale Accelerating hyperscale deployments in the AI era 09 Jan 2026 Nscale looks to raise $2bn in funding round - report Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 13 Jan 2026 Data center project in Lawrence County, Ohio, sparks calls for moratorium in neighboring city Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive Tags Botetourt County Daleville Google Project Raspberry Virginia Comments