EdgeCore to develop 1.1GW data center in Louisa County, Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel EdgeCore to develop 1.1GW data center in Louisa County, Virginia Will invest around $17bn into the facility June 25, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say EdgeCore will develop a 1.1GW data center in Louisa County, Virginia. Louisa County is located northwest of Richmond, which is a city with a growing data center market. – Getty Images Announced on June 24, the data center operator bought 697 acres of land for $42m from Louisa County. EdgeCore will invest around $17bn in the facility, which will offer around 3.9m sq ft (362,320 sqm) of space at completion. The site will reportedly use a closed-loop air-cooled system. The data center will be powered by Rappahannock Electric Cooperative, a Virginian utility. The land is located in Shannon Hill Regional Business Park, located next to Interstate 64. The park was purchased by Louisa County in 2018 for $2.6m and zoned for several technology-based uses in 2019. "EdgeCore was deliberate and intentional in our decision to commit to Louisa County for the development of a 1.1GW+ high-density data center campus," said Lee Kestler, CEO, EdgeCore Digital Infrastructure. In preparation for the sale, the County leveraged economic development grants of $13.6m and issued $17m in debt in order to assess the site’s readiness, along with $29.5m in utilities for future developments in the park. EdgeCore already has a presence in Virginia by way of two data centers. Its Ashburn facility was topped out in February 2025, and its Culpeper facility was first announced in July 2024. Both are still in the process of being built. The company currently operates facilities in Silicon Valley and Greater Phoenix . Its facility in Reno, Nevada , is set to be delivered in 2026. Virginia is home to the world’s largest data center market, and the state’s popularity amongst the industry has caused pushback . Just last week, proposals to rezone land for data centers in Chesapeake and Chesterfield were rejected amidst concerns that the facilities would greatly impact the surrounding environment. "Virginia is the world capital for the infrastructure on which the Internet and the entire global economy runs. From the spine of the Internet running through Ashburn to the transatlantic cables that connect in Virginia Beach, the entire Commonwealth is engaged in supporting the technology which runs the world. We are proud to welcome EdgeCore to Central Virginia, where their $17 billion investment will create jobs and fund vital public resources," said Governor Glenn Youngkin. More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 18 Nov 2025 Developer eyes 240-acre data center campus in Festus, Missouri Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers Sponsored Global shifts and the Middle East’s strategic ascent in building the backbone of a holistic digital decade Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive Tags EdgeCore Digital Infrastructure Edgecore Louisa County Rappahannock Electric Cooperative Shannon Hill Regional Business Park Virginia Comments