Iron Mountain Data Centers VA-7 | 11500 Prince William Parkway, Northern Virginia - datacenterHawk Contact Iron Mountain Data Centers Iron Mountain Data Centers · VA-7 11500 Prince William Parkway Manassas, VA United States https://www.ironmountain.com/data-centers/locations/virginia-data-center Iron Mountain Data Centers operates a global colocation platform that enables customers to build tailored, sustainable, carrier and cloud-neutral data solutions. As a proud part of Iron Mountain Inc., a company that specializes in the secure management of data and assets trusted by 95% of the Fortune 1000, Iron Mountain Data Centers is positioned to protect, connect, and activate high-value customer data. The company boasts highly regulated compliance, environmental sustainability, physical security, and business continuity. Iron Mountain Data Centers collaborates with 2,000+ customers in order to build and support long-term digital transformations within their 4M SF global footprint spanning 3 continents. Contact Iron Mountain Data Centers Current status and power pipeline Commissioned This facility has been commissioned. Under Construction There is no leaseable power under construction. Planned There are no plans to add additional leaseable power. Proximity to key digital infrastructure Data Centers Cloud On Ramps Carrier Hotel Details This Location Iron Mountain Data Centers VA-7 Data Center Iron Mountain Data Centers VA-4 0.13 miles Cloud On Ramp Google Cloud Equinix DC14 2.50 miles 5 mi Location details Building Connectivity Infrastructure Compliance Services Security Building Year Built Purpose Built or Retrofit Purpose Built Building Size 304,000 SF Building Owner Iron Moutain Power On Site Substation Planned Single or Dual Feed Market Avg Power Cost 6.85 Power Provider Providers POPs Services Coming Soon UPS Generator Cooling SSAE-16 SSAE-18 HIPPAA PCI DIACAP Energy Star ISO FISMA FEDRAMP NIST SOC 1 SOC 2 SOC 3 Uptime Institute MO Site Award Uptime Institute Tier III Constructed Uptime Institute Tier III Design Private Suites Cloud Dedicated Infrastructure SLA 99% CCTV Card Key Access Man Trap Perimeter Fencing Looking for a colocation partner? Find a qualified provider fit for your colocation requirements. Contact Iron Mountain Data Centers Unlock Facility Information Guess less. Make better decisions about data center real estate. Continue with LinkedIn Continue with Email By providing your information, you consent to allow datacenterHawk to store and process the personal information submitted above and agree to our terms and condititions as well as our Privacy Policy By providing your information, you consent to allow datacenterHawk to store and process the personal information submitted above and agree to our terms and condititions as well as our Privacy Policy First Name * Required! Last Name * Required! Company * Required! Work Email * Required! Get Access Continue with LinkedIn By selecting "Get Access" you consent to allow datacenterHawk to store and process the personal information submitted above and agree to our terms and condititions as well as our Privacy Policy By selecting "Get Access" you consent to allow datacenterHawk to store and process the personal information submitted above and agree to our terms and condititions as well as our Privacy Policy Thank you! Your submission has been received Back to site