Proposed Butte data center stirs debate Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 33 ° Sat 51 ° Sun 50 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY Proposed Butte data center stirs debate by Josh Margolis Fri, November 28, 2025 at 3:00 PM Updated Fri, November 28, 2025 at 10:16 PM Proposed Butte data center stirs debate Comment on this story 0 Comment Share story Share topics: Data center Sabey Butte Water use Energy consumption Environmental concerns Montana Public Service Commission BUTTE, Mont. — Two 500,000 square feet buildings on over 600 acres of land in the Montana Connections Industrial Park in Silver Bow County. That’s the basics of the proposal from Sabey Data Centers, who entered into an option for a purchase and sale agreement with the city-county back in April, with a deadline upcoming in February to close on it. “This could be upwards of over $1 billion of investment into our community. That’s construction jobs that could go on for 10 plus years and continuous upgrades of the system that they do there,” said Butte-Silver Bow chief executive J.P. Gallagher. Not everyone in the community is on board. The environmental nonprofit Montana Environmental Information Center held a forum back in October, highlighting a litany of concerns, from pollution to excessive energy and water use. “The usage of water is proportional to the usage of energy. Data centers, they require enormous amounts of water as well for cooling. These are warehouses of computers that are running at super high speeds, so they run super-hot. They use the water for cooling,” said MEIC policy associate Ben Catton. Gallagher says Sabey has told them they plan to use under 30 million gallons of water a year, with it coming from Silver Lake, which is not connected to Butte’s drinking water. Data center critics say recycling water has its own concerns and guarantees on water uses should be put in writing. “It works out to be a really substantially low number and really wouldn’t impact (us) and they would pay for that water, so it would have no impact to the local taxpayers,” said Gallagher. “I’d like to see a guarantee of water use in a contract regarding water use that is restricted to silver lake water,” said community organizer Sarah Borduin. “How is that water going to be treated? How is it going to be discharged? Who is going to pay for that? Is that going to be another cost that falls on the public?” said Catton. “Yeah, using less water is something we absolutely want to see, but not if it’s a tradeoff with long-term pollution and another area of opaque stewardship.” If the project goes ahead, Northwestern Energy has given the green light for Sabey to use 50 megawatts of power annually starting in 2026 with eventual expansion to 250 megawatts. “250 megawatts is approximately one-third of what Northwestern Energy is serving all of its Montana customers currently. Their average annual load for Montana is 759 megawatts,” said Catton. “These are mind-boggling amounts of energy, electricity that they are asking for. How they are going to get that is less clear.” Gallagher says it’s up to the Public Service Commission to ensure that the data center doesn’t lead to increased electricity rates, and the MEIC is among a handful of groups calling for the PSC to make data centers a separate ratepayer class instead of charging them with a tariff, which is what NorthWestern is proposing. “That’s not going to be sufficient, and Montanans are going to be subsidizing the cost of big tech’s data centers, and we absolutely don’t want to see that happen,” said Catton. Gallagher says the process still has a long way to go, and more specifics will come to light soon. “They haven’t optioned that land yet. I think that’s going to happen. And they’ll then come forward with what the building will look like. But there’s conversations on how big that building might be,” said Gallagher. And while the community continues to have serious concerns, Borduin says Sabey appears to have a better track record than other companies that run data centers. “I have gotten assurances from union reps that they enjoy working for data centers, that they provide a safe working environment,” said Borduin. There’s a lot more layers to this story, NBC Montana plans on diving into some of those in the coming weeks and months. A spokesperson for Sabey provided the following statement: "Sabey Data Centers sees potential in Butte and Anaconda’s next chapter as Montana’s hub for clean, efficient digital infrastructure. We’re committed to being a long-term partner that listens first, works transparently, and earns trust through action. As we evaluate the opportunity ahead, we look forward to working closely with residents, labor, local businesses, and elected leadership to ensure any development here is responsible, resource-conscious, and aligned with the community’s priorities," said Teddy Otero, director of marketing and communications for Sabey. Trending Billings police search for missing woman, believed in danger Police are asking for the public’s help to find a Billings woman who investigators believe is in danger after she was last seen getting into a vehicle with a ma 5-year-old boy dies after incident north of Whitehall, woman held on suspicion of homicide A 5-year-old boy died after authorities responded to a reported medical emergency north of Whitehall Friday afternoon, and a woman has been taken into custody o Drone footage of Bleu Horses near Three Forks, Manhattan, Anaconda The NBC Montana Sky Team shot drone footage of the Bleu Horses near Three Forks, Manhattan and Anaconda.Share Your Photos and Videos: https://NBCMontana.com/Chi FBI arrests Montana man on federal drug trafficking charges Federal authorities have arrested a man accused of distributing large amounts of methamphetamine in the Missoula area.The FBI’s Billings Division, the Missoula Butte's Pekin Noodle Parlor closing after 115 years After 115 years in business in Butte, the Pekin Noodle Parlor is closing.The restaurant has been referred to as &ldquo;the oldest continually operating family owned C NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 5 April 2026: How snowpack totals are looking 4 Montana Supreme Court hears oral arguments at MSU Law Day event 6 Earth Day festival kicks off this Saturday in Bozeman 25 SLIDESHOW: 25 viewer-submitted photos of Big Sky Country to celebrate Earth Day!