Oppidan targets Edge data center in Beaver Dam, Wisconsin - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Oppidan targets Edge data center in Beaver Dam, Wisconsin Company plans 90,000 sq ft facility February 02, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say US real estate firm Oppidan Investment Company is planning a new data center in Beaver Dam, Wisconsin. First reported by BizJournals , Oppidan is proposing to develop a 90,000 square foot (8,360 sqm) single-story regional Edge data center in the city. – Google Maps A Beaver Dam common council agenda shows the development is planned for a 13-acre site located on the corner of Highway 151 and Hemlock Road. The land is currently owned by the City of Beaver Dam. The council is set to discuss the project at a meeting this week. Beaver Dam is a city in Dodge County, along Beaver Dam Lake and the Beaver Dam River, around 65 miles northwest of Milwaukee. Meta is known to be developing in the area. Minnesota-based Oppidan is a property development firm. The company said it has been developing data centers since 2016. Data center clients in the past have reportedly included Oracle, several unnamed telcos, Bell Canada brand Bell Alliant, and Sabey Corp. It has been involved with projects in Memphis , Tennessee; an AWS project in California ; and, in 2022, acquired four plots in Santa Clara alongside Harrison Street, set to be developed into a 50MW data center. The company has been busy on numerous smaller projects across the US in the last couple of years. Oppidan recently filed to build a 5MW facility in El Paso , Texas, and broke ground on a 90,000 sq ft (8,360 sqm) data center in Chicago, Illinois. It also has projects in Apple Valley and Eagan , Minnesota; Reno , Nevada; Temple , Texas; and Albuquerque , New Mexico. On its website, Oppidan lists a subsidiary known as Connect Data Centers. The recently formed unit says it has delivered data centers totaling 650MW and 2.28 million sq ft (211,820 sqm) across California, Virginia, Maryland, Tennessee, Ohio, Iowa, and Kansas since 2016. It says it has a further 725MW and 2.96 million sq ft (274,993 sqm) worth of projects in development across the US. Oppidan recently pulled out of a planned project in North Mankato, Minnesota. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 17 Feb 2026 Adani targets 5GW of data center capacity across India Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 10 Apr 2026 600MW data center could be built in Coachella, California Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Beaver Dam Dodge County Oppidan Investment Company Wisconsin Comments