Pittsburgh Data Center - Pennsylvania Data Center Pittsburgh Data Center Overview H5 Data Centers' Pittsburgh data center is strategically positioned large East Coast population centers and the growing centralized compute nodes and technology hubs of the Midwest. Our 30,000 SF data center features redundant power, affordable electricity and access to a variety of communications networks, including Megaport. H5 Data Centers' Pittsburgh Brochure Get The Specs Downtown Pittsburgh Location: 2202 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 15222 [ Map ] Fully Secure and Reliable Pittsburgh Data Center Experience the Pittsburgh Data Center for Yourself Schedule a Tour! Rest Assured Your IT Operations are Fully Secured Our Pittsburgh data center was designed with security and business continuity in mind with a full range of security benefits. To best maintain ideal security standards, our Pittsburgh data center undergoes rigorous, annual audits for PCI-DSS, ISO 27001 and SOC 2 compliance. Secure Pittsburgh Data Center Learn more about protecting your IT operations Pittsburgh Data Center Attributes Power N+1 UPS Power Multiple diesel generators 48-hour diesel runtime Security On-site security Dual-factor authentication controls Digital cameras monitored 24x7 Cooling Cold aisle containment N+1 CRACs Compliance SOC 2 compliant from A-LIGN ISO 27001 PCI-DSS compliance Why Pittsburgh Long known as the “Steel City,” Pittsburgh is now better known for a vibrant, high-tech community to enable self-driving cars and driving further industrial automation. The area is largely free from geo-risks such as earthquakes, floods, and tornados and is proximate to major population centers without the higher cost of electricity and total cost of ownership. "Can't say enough good things about these guys. Outstanding customer service is just the start. The staff is always friendly, responsive and helpful. They stand out from the norm and make it look easy. This level of support allows us to focus on serving our customers and growing our business. Partnering with this crew is a no brainer!" Dennis Furlong Pittsburgh Interconnection Made Easy H5 Data Centers' Pittsburgh data center has options to reduce latency and increase end-user satisfaction. There are 13 on-net providers that offer a full-range of services including dark fiber and 100 Gbps for organizations with hyperscale data transfer requirements. H5 Data Centers makes interconnection easy, cost-effective and reliable. Carrier-Neutral Colocation Get the Carrier List Easy Access to Major Hyperscale Public Clouds Digital transformation continues to be a top IT priority for organizations of all sizes. The Pittsburgh data center makes hybrid IT easy by providing you with the ability to easily connect your data center infrastructure to the major public clouds like Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure and more. Cloud-Neutral Colocation Talk Hybrid IT with an H5 Data Centers' Expert Take The Next Step 01 Speak with an expert Talk with an expert to learn more about Pittsburgh Colocation and its benefits. 02 Request an In-Person Tour Experience our Pittsburgh colocation facility for yourself on a private tour. 03 Schedule a Virtual Tour Learn about H5 Data Centers Pittsburgh from the any remote location. Latest Updates from H5 Data Centers Press Releases San Antonio Expansion The Carrier Hotel in Downtown San Antonio is Expanding with New Colocation Space, Increased Power Capacity and network options. Read More Data Center Resources Data Center Outsourcing H5 Data Centers research report - the most frequently cited benefits of data center outsourcing. Read More Location. Location. Location New Data Center Build With Power Availability The First Phase of the 42 MW Ashburn Development Will be Available in Q3 of 2024. Read More Contact Us H5 Data Centers 2202 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 15222