Google, DTE plan 1 GW Michigan data center Loading... Skip to content Home » Google, DTE plan 1 gigawatt Michigan data center, eye Van Buren Township site A rendering of Project Cannoli, a proposed data center in Van Buren Township. Photo via Van Buren Township. Overview: Google, DTE Energy announce plans for a 1-gigawatt Michigan data center backed by 2.7 GW of new solar and storage resources. DTE files for a contested regulatory process for the Google data center's contracts, unlike the fast-track route taken with the Saline Township data center. Google "obviously learned a lesson from the Oracle/Open AI boondoggle," says Attorney General Dana Nessel. Don’t miss out! Join more than 7,000+ of your neighbors who already receive our informative, independent reporting on climate, health and the environment in their inbox each week. Sign me up DTE Energy and Google announced plans on Tuesday to develop a 1-gigawatt data center , possibly as part of the “Project Cannoli ” development in Van Buren Township. The company’s planned Michigan operations will be served by 2.7 GW of new grid resources in the form of solar power, energy storage, and demand flexibility, Will Conkling, Google’s head of data center development for the Americas, said in a blog post . DTE filed contracts with the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC) to support the Google development on Tuesday afternoon. Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel said in a press release that Google committed to pursuing a contested case with the MPSC for energy contracts with DTE. The company “obviously learned a lesson from the Oracle/Open AI boondoggle” in Saline Township, Nessel said. DTE’s Tuesday regulatory filing requests a decision by the MPSC by Sept. 10 and said that, while it is not waiving the right to seek ex parte treatment, the company is filing the application as a contested case. Civic Action Toolbox 🗳️ Civic Action Toolbox Why it matters Google’s plans for a Michigan data center call for enough electricity to power roughly 2 million homes. The tech giant is eyeing Van Buren Township as a site, where the “Project Cannoli” data center proposal has received preliminary site plan approval. More than 1,500 people have signed a petition opposing the Van Buren Township data center. Who's making public decisions The Michigan Public Service Commission will decide whether to approve data center energy contracts between DTE Energy and Google. The Van Buren Township board and planning commission will decide on the Project Cannoli data center proposal. Upcoming Meetings March 27, 2026 Commission Meeting (MPSC) — Mar 27, 1:00 PM · Details 📅 Google · Outlook April 17, 2026 Commission Meeting (MPSC) — Apr 17, 1:00 PM · Details 📅 Google · Outlook Civic Actions: What You Can Do Review the MPSC contested case process for the data center project Check the Michigan Public Service Commission website to find details on the contested case process for DTE's application to develop 2.7 GW of new renewable energy resources to serve the Google data center in Van Buren Township. Organizations to Follow Citizens Utility Board of Michigan Sierra Club Michigan What to watch for next Michigan Public Service Commission hearings on DTE Energy’s power agreement with Google, and discussion and votes in Van Buren Township as part of the approval process for the Project Cannoli data center proposal. Did you take action? Let us know. Submit Thank you! Your response has been recorded. Civic resources compiled by Planet Detroit DTE secured approval for contracts for Oracle and Open AI’s $7-billion, 1.4-GW Saline Township data center in a fast-tracked, ex parte regulatory case that did not allow ratepayer advocacy, environmental, and other groups to file testimony on the project’s impacts. Nessel objected to the process for the Saline Township data center and redactions to the DTE contracts shared with the public, and has moved to reopen the regulatory case. The MPSC has received 6,268 comments on the Saline Township data center case as of Tuesday afternoon. Google will pay full cost of data center electricity, DTE says The data center plans call for it to begin taking service in December 2027, “with max load being achieved by December 2028,” according to DTE. DTE said Tuesday the contracts with Google include provisions to ensure the tech giant pays the full cost of serving its load and additional customer protections that require the company to cover new generation, storage, transmission, and distribution investments for the data center. The contract with Google is expected to have nearly $1.7 billion in “positive affordability benefits” for existing customers, according to DTE. The 2.7 GW of new resources Google said will be developed represent the power demand of roughly 2 million homes . DTE delivered a peak of 10.1 GW to customers in 2022. The utility said 450 megawatts of energy storage and 1.6 GW of renewable energy will serve Google’s data center, along with demand response capability to reduce load on high demand days. Google said it will introduce a $10 million fund to improve energy affordability in Michigan communities that will include home weatherization, efficiency, and workforce development initiatives. Google data center in Wayne County? Google is evaluating a site in Van Buren Township, said Google’s Conkling. In February, the Van Buren Township Planning Commission granted preliminary site plan approval for the Project Cannoli data center. The project is proposed by Panattoni Developent Co. for a site north of I-94 between Haggerty Road and I-275. A Panattoni executive previously said the developer’s client is a Fortune 50 company. The data center will occupy 282 acres and use roughly 1 GW of electricity and around 2 million to 3.6 million gallons of water a day, according to the township’s frequently asked questions document . The planning commission required a development agreement for the data center, which would next go to the township board for approval, Planet Detroit reported in February. If it’s approved, developer Panattoni will come back to the planning commission for a final site plan, Treasurer Sharry Budd said Feb. 12. Planet Detroit contacted Budd and Ron Akers, Van Buren Township’s municipal services director, for comment Tuesday on the status of Project Cannoli. More than 1,500 people have signed a petition opposing the Van Buren Township data center. DATA CENTER NEWS Data center moratorium bills reflect public sentiment, says Michigan lawmaker Three bipartisan bills in Michigan would prevent state and local government from issuing permits for data centers until April 2027, giving lawmakers time to address concerns about energy demands and community impacts. by Brian Allnutt March 2, 2026 March 3, 2026 Van Buren Township advances 1 GW ‘Project Cannoli’ data center: ‘It’s a big decision’ Lawyer for data center developer says planning commission is legally obligated to approve project. by Brian Allnutt February 12, 2026 February 12, 2026 Data center protest in Van Buren Township targets 1-gigawatt proposal Data center opponents say the 800,000-square-foot facility could strain local utilities. The data center will use as much as 3.6 million gallons of water a day, according to the township. by Brian Allnutt January 14, 2026 January 14, 2026 Brian Allnutt Senior Reporter Brian Allnutt is a senior reporter and contributing editor at Planet Detroit. He covers the climate crisis, environmental justice, politics and open space. More by Brian Allnutt