Vantage buys two land plots in San Antonio, Texas - DCD Home News Construction & Site Selection Vantage buys two land plots in San Antonio, Texas Company buys two sites near to Microsoft facilities September 01, 2023 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Vantage Data Centers has acquired its first land tracts in Texas with land purchases in San Antonio. The San Antonio Report , citing Bexar County property records, reports Vantage has bought two plots of vacant land totaling 89 acres in San Antonio. The land purchase in the Texas Research Park – Google Maps The company bought 31 acres on August 9 at the north corner of the crossing of State Highway 151 and Wiseman Boulevard. The prior owner was VHS San Antonio Partners, a subsidiary of Dallas-based Tenet Healthcare Corp., owner of the Baptist Medical Center and other local medical facilities. VHS San Antonio owned the properties since 2007. Microsoft operates a single data center nearby. In late July, Vantage purchased 57.9 acres within the Texas Research Park, beside the crossing of Omicron Drive and Theta Drive, from the University of Texas System Board of Regents. Microsoft operates a large campus nearby at 15000 Lambda Drive. The company recently completed another 79,385 sq ft (7,375 sqm) data center at the Research Park campus, known as SAT46 . At full build-out, the site will total more than 1 million sq ft. Vantage isn’t the only company building out near Microsoft’s campus. CloudHQ recently acquired 123 acres of land in the Texas Research Park, across the street from Microsoft's facilities and immediately west of Vantage’s purchase, from the University of Texas System. CloudHQ is reportedly planning up to five data centers on that plot. QTS recently filed for approval to subdivide a 48-acre tract of land located southwest of the intersection of Highway 211 and Potranco Road, located just north of Microsoft’s Lambda Drive campus. The plot bought along Wiseman Boulevard and Rogers Road – Google Maps Microsoft opened its first South Central US Azure region in Texas in 2008, which offers three availability zones. It also opened a US Gov Texas Azure region in 2017. As well as the Lambda Drive campus, Microsoft has sites in operation or development in the city along FM 1957 , Westover Link , and Rogers Road . Amazon is also planning three data center sites in San Antonio ; one facility, at Potranco Road, has been completed. Vantage currently has US data center campuses in Virginia , Washington, Arizona , and California . It is looking to develop a site in Atlanta , Georgia. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 05 Feb 2026 Local authorities in Ashville, Ohio, deny annexation request for data center project Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 13 Nov 2025 EticaAG launches in-rack immersion cooled battery systems for data centers Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags University of Texas Texas Texas Research Park San Antonio Vantage Data Centers Vantage Tenet Healthcare Corp VHS San Antonio Partners Bexar County Comments