Barrio Energy plans sites for two 10MW data centers in Matagorda County, Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Barrio Energy plans sites for two 10MW data centers in Matagorda County, Texas Company looking for clients for the potential facilities August 13, 2025 By Sebastian Moss Have your say Energy and digital infrastructure company Barrio Energy plans to develop sites for two 10MW data centers in Matagorda County, Texas. The company specializes in acquiring, developing, and leasing industrial and commercial properties, catering to large-scale energy users. 27 Jun 2025 Former Texas governor and US energy sec plans 11GW data center campus outside Amarillo, Texas Company partnering with Texas Tech University System for off-grid nuclear-solar-gas project Barrio operates a number of sites in Texas, with operational sites in Monahans, George West, Lolita, and Tyler. The latter facility was acquired last year , but required "rehabilitation work." The projects are developed in collaboration with partners, with the two 10MW sites open to partners. One site is expected to commence operations in Q4 2025, with the second in Q1 2026. Tenants can handle on-site maintenance, utilities, and improvements, if desired. "We are excited to advance these two high-potential 10MW sites in Matagorda County, which perfectly align with our mission to provide scalable, efficient energy solutions for our clients," said Ivan Pinney, CEO of Barrio Energy. "The ERCOT South Zone's strong infrastructure and access to abundant power make it an optimal location for next-generation computing. These developments expand our portfolio and contribute to local economic growth through job creation and technological innovation." Pinney, a former Chevron team lead, founded Barrio in 2022. Clients include cryptomining operations. More in The Data Center Construction Channel Asia Pacific Digital Campaign Guide 2026 04 Nov 2025 Colt DCS will add three data centers to its Hayes Digital Park campus Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment Tags Barrio Energy ERCOT South Zone Ivan Pinney Matagorda County Texas Comments