Supervisors Narrowly Approve Data Center Near Leesburg | News | loudounnow.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email An outlined parcel shows the planned location for a proposed 556,746 square foot data center project by JK Land Holdings near the intersection of Sycolin Road and Crosstrail Boulevard. Loudoun County Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save After months of meetings in which supervisors debated the merits of allowing a data center on land near Leesburg Executive Airport, the board last night voted narrowly to approve the proposal. The rezoning application was submitted by JK Land Holdings and would permit up to 556,746 square feet of data center space on a 22-acre tract along Crosstrail Boulevard and Sycolin Road. It would also alternatively permit up to 416,000 square feet of warehouse or distribution uses, or up to 218,000 square feet of industrial uses. The request would rezone the property from Joint Land Management Area to Planned Development - Industrial Park. The board was unable in May and then again in July to find consensus on the proposal with motions to approve and to deny the application failing to find majority support. Last night’s motion to approve the application, made by Supervisor Kristen C. Umstattd (D-Leesburg), came down to County Chair Phyllis J. Randall (D-At Large), who had said earlier this month that she needed more time to review the application. “I had a very hard time with this application for quite a few reasons, and I have been 51-49 back and forth and back and forth,” she said, adding that she wanted to make sure she didn’t get the vote “wrong.” Randall said the proposed location is industrial, making it an appropriate location for a data center. She added that JK Land Holdings had agreed to several improvements and proffers that improved the application. “I won't say that I'm thrilled about saying yes, but I was trying too hard to get to a no. And if you're trying too hard to get to a no, maybe the answer is not no,” she said. The application was opposed by Vice Chair Michael Turner (D-Ashburn) and supervisors Juli E. Briskman (D-Algonkian), Laura A. TeKrony (D-Little River) and Sylvia R. Glass (D-Broad Run). They raised concerns with the continued need for power infrastructure in Loudoun including more transmission lines and utility substations. The Cross Mill application does not include permission for a substation to be constructed and would have all distribution lines – lower voltage power lines – buried underground. High voltage lines, or transmission lines, would still be above ground. It was supported by Umstattd and supervisors Caleb A. Kershner (R-Catoctin), Matthew F. Letourneau (R-Dulles), and Koran T. Saines (D-Sterling), who agreed the location is an appropriate one for a data center. Randall reminded supervisors that they are not allowed to take power demand or constraints into consideration when making land use decisions, but said she is working to change that. “I put legislation in to ask the General Assembly, ‘Can we consider power?’ But right now, we can't consider power,” she said. After months of meetings in which supervisors debated the merits of allowing a data center on land near Leesburg Executive Airport, the board on July 15, 2025, voted narrowly to approve the proposal. If you value our local, nonprofit, community journalism, thank a donor—or pitch in yourself! Your gift helps ensure local news remains free and accessible for everyone. Thank you! Pitch in for local, nonprofit news! Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Hanna Pampaloni Author email Follow Hanna Pampaloni × Post a comment as anonymous Emoticons [smile] [beam] [wink] [sad] [cool] [innocent] [rolleyes] [whistling] [lol] [huh] [tongue] [love] [sleeping] [yawn] [unsure] [angry] [blink] [crying] [ohmy] [scared] [sleep] [sneaky] [tongue_smile] [thumbdown] [thumbup] [censored] [happybirthday] [ban] [spam] [offtopic] [batman] [ninja] [pirate] [alien] Comment Text Cancel Post comment × Report Cancel Report Abuse × Watch this discussion. Stop watching this discussion. Watch this discussion Get an email notification whenever someone contributes to the discussion Notifications from this discussion will be disabled. Cancel Start watching Stop watching (16) comments NotAnEcho Jul 18, 2025 9:12am There must be some explanation for these votes beyond "that's a good spot for a data center." How soon can we vote this crowd--all of them--out of office? Adding one more data center adds more to the drain of our electrical grid, raises our cost of electricity and sticks us both with more big ugly boxes and miles and miles of high energy wires across our Loudoun vistas. If a data center wannabe has to ask permission then doing nothing at all would mean it wouldn't happen. This BOS isn't able to see even that obvious point. FIRE THEM ALL Report Add Reply LocalGlobalCitizen Jul 17, 2025 8:38pm Where do we go to protest these decisions? How do we participate more actively? I'm pretty fed up with these data centers nonsense. This, together with recent news that they want to LOWER taxes for data centers is too much. We need to do something about this, this is plain corruption. Report Add Reply Paynes Jul 17, 2025 2:43pm Going to need a nuclear energy to power the data centers. Report Add Reply NotAnEcho Jul 18, 2025 9:13am Put the nuke at Randall's house, or better yet, build one at every supervisor's house. Report Add Reply JoeSchmoe Jul 17, 2025 12:14pm Meanwhile, real estate taxes continue to go up while the data centers get tax breaks. Our electric rates are going up to supply power to these data centers, not to mention the proliferation of high voltage lines and towers popping up all over Loudoun County. What's in it for the residents of the county? Report Add Reply LocalGlobalCitizen Jul 17, 2025 8:40pm It's not about us. It's about corrupted officials and lobbying. Report Add Reply David Dickinson Jul 16, 2025 8:35pm Randall needed some extra time to make sure that check to her campaign fund cleared. I guess it did. Report Add Reply Master Bedroom Jul 16, 2025 8:11pm Of course they approved it. Was there vote a mystery to anyone in Loudoun????? Report Add Reply Brian Allman Jul 16, 2025 6:52pm Why can't Randall and Chuck work towards opening up the ferry? It's been closed for years!!!! How much money will Chuck donated to Randall's re election campaign??? Report Add Reply Hikerva Jul 16, 2025 4:59pm Randall and the Board of Supervisors must be tone deaf or motivated by other factors. There is clearly a power distribution and availability issue in LOCO and they are ignoring it. They continue to approve data centers. What recourse do citizens have to battle inept county management? Report Add Reply Thistle Jul 16, 2025 3:56pm Randall can't not know that an overwhelming majority of Loudoun citizens oppose additional data centers, and citizen opposition is a completely legally defensible position for her to take. So her explanation for the change from last week to this one had something to do with something that "my friend Chuck" said to her. Report Add Reply Froggy Jul 16, 2025 3:46pm It looks like an excellent location. Now, if Leesburg were to use the additional tax revenue to lower taxes instead of spending it, that would be fantastic. Report Add Reply Anomerc Jul 18, 2025 9:19pm I didn’t buy a home here in order to get lower taxes and utility bills, which we aren’t getting anyway. It would not be fantastic, it’s a big, ugly, expensive, eye sore, that nobody seems to want, but our “politicians seem to like. If this is what they choose to do, get rid of them before our home values end up in the toilet. Report Add Reply NotAnEcho Jul 16, 2025 2:40pm Too bad these commissioners don't read this webs