East Point datacenter project overview - Microsoft Local East Point datacenter project overview Learn more about Microsoft’s work in East Point, Georgia Thank you for your cooperation and patience as we continue construction on the buildout of the datacenter campus. We are committed to providing you with regular updates and communication through this website. Visit our photo gallery of the project What is a datacenter? Datacenters are part of everyday life Essential for modern technology, datacenters power everything from online grocery shopping, online banking, and remote work to scheduling medical appointments and staying connected with family and friends. Datacenters also support businesses, hospitals, schools, and governments. Datacenter buildings house thousands of computer servers and data storage devices connected to the internet. Video: Learn more about datacenters Datacenter virtual tour East Point datacenter project at a glance The project includes the construction of two datacenter buildings, a power substation, privacy screening, support facilities, and landscaping. Total Parcels: 6 Parcels Combined acreage: 131.6 (Developed Acreage 84.6) No. of Buildings : 2 Buildings Building Square footage: 489,370 sq ft. (244,685 x 2) Parking Spaces: 114 spaces Total # of Employees: +/- 50 per Building Neighborhood enhancements around the datacenter The datacenter project will also include the following neighborhood additions: A nature walk area accessible from Ben Hill Road and will include a walking trail, native plants and trees, and seating. Three-quarters of an acre in size (33,000 square feet), with dimensions of 75 feet by 440 feet. Our proposed vegetation will include a native/ sustainable mixture of evergreen and deciduous trees to be installed along Ben Hill Road. Preview the nature walk with this virtual tour. Sidewalks along Ben Hill Road An 8-10 ft. solid barrier privacy wall and supplemental trees for additional buffering between the datacenter and residential homes. Neighbors directly impacted unanimously chose this screening option. Updated landscaping along Ben Hill Road. Microsoft will plant mature and faster-growing trees, at least 18-22 ft. in height along Ben Hill Road to further screen the datacenter campus and allow it to blend into the surrounding environment naturally. Work at the datacenter We believe economic growth can and must be inclusive. That’s why we invest to help individuals, organizations, and communities access pathways to growth and opportunity. Working with local organizations and leaders, we invest in programs to help people build skills for jobs and livelihood opportunities and increase access to computer science education. Join our team. Explore our resources and build the skills to work at a datacenter Take a look at the career opportunities in Georgia The Microsoft Datacenter Academy is coming to the Atlanta Technical College. Project resources Stay informed about our ongoing East Point datacenter project updates Project timing: 2023-2026 Phase: Construction Learn more about our most frequently asked questions about datacenters Stay connected Contact us by calling 470-832-6713 or via email us at eastpointdc@microsoft.com Stop by our booth and visit us this summer at the Wednesday Wind Down event which will recur on fourth Wednesday between May through August, from 5 to 9 p.m. Community investments Microsoft invests in local programs that benefit people of all ages. In Greater Atlanta, our collaborations are organized by our focus areas of Skills for Jobs, Enabling Sustainability, and Empowering Communities. Read about many of our community investments across Greater Atlanta since 2022. Technology Education and Learning Support (TEALS) is a Microsoft Philanthropies program that builds sustainable computer science (CS) programs in high schools. We focus on serving students excluded from learning CS because of race, gender, or geography. Microsoft is building a datacenter campus in East Point, Georgia The project includes the construction of two datacenter buildings, a power substation, privacy screening, support facilities, and landscaping. Flip through our photo gallery to see the architectural renderings of the project and a computer animated preview video of the nature walk on Ben Hill Road. Learn more in our project overview section. Datacenter entrance off of Ben Hill Road Rendering of mature trees and sidewalk looking North on Ben Hill Road. Aerial rendering of datacenter campus and retaining wall location Ben Hill Road pocket park nature walk details Watch a rendering animation of the future Ben Hill Road nature walk Tags: