Dozens of speakers tell GCEDC proposed data centers pose big environmental threat for little economic gain | The Batavian Skip to main content Dozens of speakers tell GCEDC proposed data centers pose big environmental threat for little economic gain Emotional moment: "This is one of the few natural areas remaining in this region of the state, and it seems ridiculous to throw away," said Maggie Cowen. Photo by Howard Owens. Data centers are big, noisy, use too much energy, and pose a risk to watersheds, more than two dozen speakers told the staff of the Genesee County Economic Development Center at three public hearings on Monday in the town of Alabama. The hearing was held at the rec hall of the Alabama Volunteer Fire Department and was attended by more than 50 people. Some brought signs or wore T-shirts expressing their opposition to locating a data center at WNY STAMP. They came from Syracuse, Buffalo, Rochester, Niagara County, Orleans County, and Genesee County, including the Tonawanda Seneca Indian Reservation. The proposed projects are massive -- all more than 750,000 square feet, or more than 13 football fields -- and will range in cost from $2.2 billion to $6.32 billion. They would each create from 100 to 200 jobs. The three projects are STREAM U.S. Data Centers, LLC, Project Rampart, LLC, Potentia Holdings, LLC. Exactly what kind of data the proposed centers would store and retrieve is unclear, but data centers typically provide services for artificial intelligence, cryptocurrency data mining, data analytics and storage, IT and telecommunications, and co-location services for major corporations. Stream Realty Partners builds data centers for Fortune 500 companies. PRP Real Estate Investment Management backs Project Rampart, and its clients include Meta (Facebook), Microsoft, and Amazon. Potentia Capital is an Australian private equity firm specializing in technology, software, and tech-enabled services. These sorts of projects are usually backed by a consortium of private equity investors, often global in nature. CORRECTION from prior version of the story: Neither Steam nor Project Rampart are seeking property tax exemptions, just sales tax and mortgage tax exemptions. The Stream project would generate $10.9 million in annual revenue for local municipalities and school districts, and Project Rampart, $10.3 million annually. Potentia is seeking $42.7 million in property tax exemptions over 20 years, resulting in an average of $7.1 million in annual PILOT fees. Many speakers questioned whether data centers fit into the promised profile of WNY STAMP, which was sold to the community as a high-tech manufacturing hub, much like the Edwards Vacuum plant currently under construction. Edwards is promising 600 jobs in a 240,000-square-foot facility, or one job per 400 square feet. Stream is projecting one job (at a salary of $89,000 annually) per 7,800 square feet, Rampart, one job ($64,000 annually per 7,142 square feet, and Potentia, one job ($129,000 annually) per 4,460 square feet. There is only enough space available in STAMP for one of these data centers, so the GCEDC board will need to decide whether to reject all of them or pick only one of them for approval. Data centers have been controversial in other communities, and several speakers brought up issues with the Digihost Fortistar Niagara County facility. It is a 60 MW cryptocurrency mining operation located off Erie Avenue in North Tonawanda. Residents there have protested against noise pollution , leading the city to ban the facility from expanding for two years . Other complaints about the facility have included excessive greenhouse gas emissions , There have also been complaints about noise from data centers in Loudoun County, Virginia, Granbury, Texas, and Fairfax County, Virginia. Health concerns from data centers include stress and anxiety , hearing loss, disrupted sleep , and even cardiovascular risk . The controversy in Niagara County about data centers may have contributed to chasing away Kevin O’Leary, of Shark Tank fame, when he sought to build a data center in the region. He claimed the project was fully funded and would have created thousands of jobs. He said he ran into significant roadblocks raised by local politicians and state policies. He reportedly said on CNN, "It got so bad with the politicians in the local region and the state policy, we moved it to Norway, and all the jobs. Norway has it now. Thousands of jobs coming out of that! That’s New York. Uninvestable.” While many speakers on Monday focused on these issues, the only matter before the GCEDC board, when the projects come up for a vote, is economic -- will a data center create jobs and help grow tax revenue in Genesee County? NOTE : The environmental issues will come before the board during the SEQRA, if GCEDC is lead agency. Mark Masse taking notes during testimony. Photo by Howard Owens. If approved by the board, the winning project must jump through a series of regulatory hoops, including: State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA) compliance, which assesses potential impacts on air quality, water resources, wildlife, and other environmental factors. GCEDC has applied for lead agency status for the SEQRA review. Air and Water Quality Permits, which cover air emissions and water usage. It would be up to the Department of Environmental Conservation to provide the permits. The project must comply with the Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act (CLCPA), which focuses on greenhouse gas emissions. There would also be a requirement for energy consumption disclosure. The town of Alabama's local zoning boards and the Genesee County Planning Board would review the projects. The project would need to comply with existing noise ordinances, for example, as well as other land-use regulations. As part of the public hearing process at the local level, the developer would need to address community concerns about noise, emissions, and resource usage. Photo by Howard Owens. Highlights of speakers' remarks (not all speakers included): Madeline Nyblade, an assistant professor at SUNY ESF with a Ph.D. in Earth and Environmental Sciences, specializing in hydrology. Nyblade expressed concern about the hydrology of the region, which includes wetlands and clay-rich soils that create perched water tables. The area is upstream from critical ecosystems such as the Tonawanda Seneca Nation lands, the Tonawanda Wildlife Management Area, and the Iroquois National Wildlife Refuge, making it susceptible to downstream impacts. “This land is wetland, part of this larger wetland complex, yet none of the proposals take into account the wetlands that will be destroyed,” she said. Photo by Howard Owens. Margaret Wooster, reading a letter from Allies of the Tonawanda Seneca Nation, Western New York Environmental Alliance, and 57 other environmental, faith-based, human rights, and good governance groups. The letter states that the project contradicts New York State’s and international commitments to environmental sustainability, social responsibility, and long-term stewardship and expresses concerns about the destruction of wetlands. The data centers will consume 200 megawatts of electricity annually, straining regional energy systems, she said. The centers would also use 800,000 gallons of fresh water daily. She also raised concerns about air pollution. “Industrial runoff, hydrological disruptions, and heated water discharge from a data center would devastate these fragile ecosystems,” she said. Joseph O’Malley (reading a statement by John Whitney) The letter noted the area is a 20,000-acre network of wetlands and wildlife refuges critical to biodiversity and carbon sequestration. “The GCEDC STAMP site is situated in an area with deep cultural and ecological significance," the letter stated. "It is central to Western New York’s heritage, including that of the Haudenosaunee people and the Tonawanda Seneca Nation.” It also called into que