Japan Trade Deal to bring billion-dollar natural gas project to southeast Ohio Skip to content by: Mitchell Hoy Posted: Feb 20, 2026 / 12:20 PM EST Updated: Feb 21, 2026 / 11:28 AM EST SHARE PIKE COUNTY, Ohio (WOWK) — An investment by Japan in American energy could bring one of the biggest gas facilities ever built in the United States to Southeast Ohio. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, the $550 billion trade deal with Japan that was struck in July includes a $36 billion investment into American mineral, gas and oil projects. New facilities will be built in Texas and Georgia as part of the investment, but the largest portion by far is for a natural gas power facility to be built near Portsmouth, Ohio. It’s called the Portsmouth Powered Land Project. U.S. Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick estimates it at $33 billion of the total $36 billion invested for the three projects. The almost unfathomable amount of money going into the single facility could produce a plethora of opportunities and economic impact for surrounding communities. The project is suspected to bring numerous jobs to places like Portsmouth and Piketon. “Any project that brings jobs is a good thing,” said Scioto County Commissioner Merit Smith. “You’re going to be talking about massive building and construction, and you’ve got to have people running it. It’s going to be a good-paying industry.” Details surrounding the project are still scarce. Local government officials, like Smith, were not even made aware of the plans to launch such a massive project in the places they represent. But those same officials have a hunch as to why they were left out of the dealings, and where the facility may be built. Smith believes the facility will become a neighbor of the Portsmouth Gaseous Diffusion Facility, a uranium enrichment plant located near Piketon in Pike County, despite the name. The diffusion facility lies on a massive piece of federally owned land belonging to the Department of Energy. Building the new gas plant there, as opposed to buying state or privately-owned land, would require little interaction with local entities. There is also the fact that, while the project is named after Portsmouth, there are very few viable options around the city to build something so enormous. Commissioner Smith suggested that the project may be carrying the Portsmouth name because the diffusion center does too. President Donald Trump’s administration said the Portsmouth Powered Land Project will be the biggest natural gas production project in the world. The facility is expected to have a capacity of 9.2 gigawatts. The project could make southeast Ohio a key player in global gas production. Add as preferred source on Google ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel NOW PLAYING Mingo County pair arrested on child neglect charges, … More Videos Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now Daily News SIGN UP NOW Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews Download the FREE WOWK 13 News App Rosen Law Firm Encourages Disc Medicine, Inc. Investors … UPST Investors Have Opportunity to Lead Upstart Holdings, … LONGi EcoLife Series Module Top TaiyangNews Global … Rosen Law Firm Encourages Elauwit Connection, Inc. … Rosen Law Firm Encourages Immutep Ltd. Investors … Pony.ai Announces New Generation Autonomous Driving … STLA Investors Have Opportunity to Lead Stellantis … WisPaper Enables Parallel Scientific Exploration, … View All Cision PR Newswire BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks Don't Miss Get the WOWK News & Stormtracker Apps The New StormTracker 13 VIPIR Real Time Radar