Where data center projects stand in Fauquier County | News | fauquiernow.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Close Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Map of existing and pending data centers in Fauquier County. Created by FauquierNow Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save While demand for data centers in Northern Virginia remains strong as ever, a limited availability of sites is driving developers to areas not typically considered a part of major data center hubs. Counties such as Fauquier, Culpeper, Stafford and Spotsylvania are seeing an influx of proposals. Fauquier County is currently home to two operational data centers -- an Amazon Web Services facility at the Warrenton Training Center and an OVHcloud center in Vint Hill -- with eight proposals and one expansion in the pipeline. FauquierNow has created a database of potential and pending applications, as well as their statuses and links to proposal materials, based on information provided by the Fauquier County Department of Community Development. Remington Area Projects The concept plan for the Convergent Technology Park. Provided by Fauquier County Department of Community Development Convergent Technology Park McLean-based data center developer Convergent VA LLC first pitched plans for Convergent Technology Park, a data center project slated for a 140-acre tract of land bound by James Madison Street and James Madison Highway, in February 2019. Though the proposed $1 billion data center campus was approved by Fauquier’s Planning Commission in May 2019, the developers withdrew the application. Despite calling the original project “premature,” Jeffrey Price, a partner in Convergent VA, told FauquierNow during a May community meeting, “It is clearly our intent to develop the property for data center use.” The parcel’s current zoning could allow for a by-right subdivision with 198 single-family lots, with the Ellerslie Farm plan subdivision approved by the Fauquier County Board of Supervisors in December 2003. However, Price said, “We found there was a preference for data centers if done properly. And ‘properly’ meant you don't really want to see ‘em and you don't want to hear ‘em.” Convergent VA’s pre-application meeting was held April 30 and plans for a comprehensive plan amendment, rezoning and special exception were submitted on June 21. According to Fauquier County Chief of Planning Adam Shellenberger, the applications have not yet been accepted by the county. Further, the applicant requested that they be put on hold to allow them time to prepare and include additional information. Recent plans indicate the applicant seeks to develop a data center campus totaling 1,056,000 square feet in the northern 104.34 acres of the site, including four two-story buildings roughly 65 feet tall, an above-ground water storage facility, 12-feet-tall and 80-feet-wide wide vegetative berms and buffers and 35.14 acres in the southern portion of the site dedicated as a passive park. The concept plan for the Remington Technology Park. Provided by Fauquier County Department of Community Development Remington Technology Park Alberta, Canada-based data center developer PointOne Holdings Inc. was given the green light by the Board of Supervisors in March of 2018 to rezone 234 acres of land along Lucky Hill Road from residential to business park to construct up to six data centers, totaling 1.5 to 1.8 million square feet. The original proposal also called for an onsite electrical substation. The developer in April 2018 paid Fauquier real estate investors Bob and Bill Springer $7 million for the 234-acre data center property at 12270 Lucky Hill Road, with the hopes of breaking ground on the $1-billion-plus Remington Technology Park project in the same year. Five partner firms committed to helping the company finance, construct and maintain the planned campus northeast of Remington. At the time of its approval, PointOne President Colin Clish told county officials full buildout of the proposed Remington Technology Park could take anywhere from five to sevent years, with the first building constructed in mid- to late- 2019. However, according to Shellenberger, while PointOne’s Remington Technology Park is “shovel-ready” there have yet to be any updates from the developer. The concept plan for the SAMX data center campus. Provided by Fauquier County Department of Community Development SAMX Data Centers SAMX Data LLC, a real estate development company formed by Co-Managing members Peter Mallios and David Hall based out of Northern Virginia, submitted an application in October 2023 to rezone approximately 55.26 acres of property at 11825 Remington Road from Agriculture (RA) to Business Park (BP). The site, owned by Superfood Farms LLC, adjoins the Remington Technology Park and Remington Substation property and is located in the Remington Service District. According to the applicant’s proposal, the SAMX development would consist of two three-story buildings, roughly 45 feet in height, each ranging from 300,000 to 350,000 square feet. The complete square footage of all buildings in SAMX Data Center is estimated at 1 million square feet. The total construction value of the three buildings on site when complete is estimated to be nearly $1 billion. The developer told county staff development of the SAMX Data Center project could commence within a two- to three-year time frame, and construction of all three buildings to take between four and six years to complete. This past June, the developers filed for a time extension, saying it required longer than the one-year time frame allotted by the Code of Virginia to review and address agency review comments on its first submission. Shellenberger says the county is still waiting to receive the second submission from the applicant. The concept plan for the Gigaland data center campus. Provided by Fauquier County Department of Community Development Gigaland Data Centers Haymarket-based land developer Gigaland LLC in January pitched its proposal of a 2,800,000-square-foot data center campus on 200 acres of land located to the south of Lucky Hill Road, just outside the town limits of Remington. Gigaland co-founders Art Lickunas and Roland Talalas purchased the residentially zoned site for $4 million in October, which neighbors the Remington substation, the Marsh Run Powerplant and the Remington Technology Park site. Their proposal for the 202.54 acres includes the development of 10 two-story buildings roughly 65 feet tall alongside two on-site electrical substations. The developers also propose to construct an above-ground water storage facility. Gigaland officials proposed a phased approach for the development of the property, according to county staff reports. Phase 1 would include the development of five data center buildings and the two substations, accessed from Lucky Hill Road and Old Grassdale Road. Phase 2 would see the construction of another two data center buildings, and the remaining three data center buildings, wells, water treatment building and water storage tower in Phase 3. The comprehensive plan amendment, rezoning and special exception applications were submitted on June 28 but have not yet been accepted by the county, said Shellenberger. The applicant requested that they be put on hold to allow them to prepare additional information. The project developers are still seeking the support from Remington residents, proposing different initiatives such as advocating for the allocation of funds toward Remington projects such as the revival of the Rappahannock Swim Club and the construction of wells on-site in order to provide water to the Lee District. Vint Hill Area Projects The concept plan for the CyrusOne data center campus. Provided by Fauquier County Department of Co