2GW data center could be developed in Cameron County, Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 2GW data center could be developed in Cameron County, Texas But nothing official has been submitted yet February 05, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say UK-based powered land developer Eneus Energy is looking to develop a 2GW data center on a site in Cameron County, Texas. According to the company’s website, the campus will span 16 data halls across 1,785 acres. It will be supplied by a planned 765kV transmission line, with “the capability for more generation.” – Eneus Energy Ltd Eneus also claims that the data center will bring $14 billion worth of capital investment into the county, based on a study commissioned by the company. It has been eyeing a potential data center in the county since last year. In July 2025, RGV Property Group, an American subsidiary of Eneus, signed a contract giving the company the option to purchase 13 acres of land totalling 1,775 acres near the Valley International Airport, according to documents posted by the Rio Grande Valley Business Journal . In a letter sent to the Public Utility Commission of Texas last October, Eneus said that it had already secured up to 1GW of interconnection capacity for a proposed campus called the RGV data center. This would mean that Eneus doubled its estimates of the data center’s capacity in less than a year. But the company has yet to submit a formal proposal to the local authorities. Eneus’ website states that the data center is in its “initial planning and evaluation phase”, and Eddie Trevino, the County Judge of Cameron County, stated on Facebook in mid-January that “no formal proposal” had been submitted. “While we must examine the potential economic benefits such a development may bring, we must evaluate possible challenges, particularly those related to natural resource usage (land and water) and energy consumption,” reads an accompanying statement. According to Eneus’ website, the company was founded in 2013 to “advance energy transition technologies, including hydrogen-based solutions and green ammonia.” But like many other renewable energy companies, Eneus decided to start a powered land business following the explosion of demand caused by the AI boom. Powered land companies provide data center companies with pre-ready energy infrastructure, making it easier for developers to set up. More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 21 Nov 2025 Fluidstack signs additional 39MW lease with Cipher Mining in Texas, backed by Google Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 17 Nov 2025 Basis Bay launches data center in Cyberjaya, Malaysia Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? Tags Cameron County Eneus Energy RGV Property Group Texas Comments