Mineral Gap Data Center in Wise, VA | DP Facilities Solutions Data Center Build-To-Suit Colocation Locations Wise, VA Campus Ashburn, VA Corporate HQ Salt Lake City, UT Denver, CO Reno, NV Austin, TX Atlanta, GA Industries Commercial Government Compliance Resources Blog Op-eds In The News News Releases About Us Our Vision Who We Are Partners FAQ Sustainability Contact Linkedin Twitter Youtube WISE, VA Mineral Gap Data Center Campus in Wise, VA Mineral Gap Data Center Campus is a highly secure, compliant, and regulated Uptime Institute Certified Tier III data center campus. Mineral Gap was initially built to provide U.S. agency clients and their contractors a state-of-the-art private solution to rival on-premise secure data center facilities. This allows commercial enterprises to benefit from the same heightened level of security for their data storage. Mineral Gap can handle any of your colocation and hybrid colocation facility needs -- from being your primary facility to being your secondary disaster recovery facility. Download Spec Sheet - The Mineral Gap Data Center Campus Download Our Spec Sheet × Capabilities Mineral Gap is a 65,000-square-­foot secure data center campus located on a 22-acre site in Wise County. Its key features include: Dedicated data halls, suites and cages to limit traffic. Diverse fiber providers supply multiple redundant routes into the facility. Designed with N+2 redundancy; requires no shutdowns for equipment replacement and maintenance. Mission­-critical components are protected by a redundant delivery path for power and cooling. Up to 45 MW of power, low-cost electricity, and an estimated PUE of 1.2. Download Spec Sheet - The Mineral Gap Data Center Campus Download Our Spec Sheet × Security Mineral Gap is a high-strength, pre-cast concrete facility that enforces strict anti-terrorism protection measures. The data center’s enhanced security includes: K-rated, U.S. Department of State certified anti-ram fencing, wedge barriers, a DoD anti-terrorism perimeter blast berm, bullet resistant level III mantrap, and counter-IED protective measures. Dedicated force of armed security personnel on duty 24/7/365. Advanced tactical command center and extensive video and counter-surveillance systems. Biometric and key card multi-factor authentication provide strict access control all the way to the cage level. Mineral Gap meets and/or exceeds the physical and security requirements under NIST, FISMA, FedRAMP, HIPAA, HITRUST CSF, SSAE 16 SOC 1 & SOC 2 audit, and PCI DSS. Room For Growth The secure technology corridor in Wise County provides ample room for growth, and enables your business to expand its IT infrastructure in a single location. Future development of the campus (Phases II & III) will accommodate 200,000+ square feet of data center space and administrative support buildings. The expansion will utilize more than 50+ acres of additional adjacent land under option available for future campus development, and allow you to scale your infrastructure quickly and inexpensively. Additionally, Mineral Gap Data Center Campus provides customers with up to 45 MW of power. TAKE THE NEXT STEP © Copyright - DP Facilities, Inc. - 2020 | Call: (866) 589-6125 | Email: info@dpfacilities.com About Privacy Policy