Hillwood affiliate files to develop 2.2 million sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Hillwood affiliate files to develop 2.2 million sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia 75 South campus set to join several other projects in Spalding County January 30, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Another large data center campus could be coming to Georgia. A Development of Regional Impact application has been filed with the Georgia Department of Community Affairs for a data center campus in Spalding County, some 45km (27.9 miles) south of Atlanta. The 75 South Data Center Campus would total seven two-story buildings totaling 2.24 million sq ft (208,100 sqm) on land in District 2 in the county’s southeast corner. Few further details are available, but the project could be built out until 2030. The applicant is Industrial VI Enterprises, LLC, a known affiliate of the real estate development firm Hillwood. LBM Associates is listed as the property owner. An application has also been made to the Spalding County Water Authority for the development, but few details have been published. There are several prospective data center projects around Spalding County. This month, the county board approved a zoning request for a 190-acre campus that could total up to nearly five million sq ft (463,215 sqm) across ten buildings. The request was made by Wallace Jackson LLC on land owned by Havenwood Holdings. Two other data center campuses, totaling 3.9 million sq ft (362,321 sqm) of building space, were approved last year by the Spalding County board of commissioners. Spalding Investments LLC had filed to develop eight two-story data centers on 127 acres in Griffin, while Montana Property Group LLC’s Project Spalding campus could total 2.55 million square feet (236,900 sqm). Atlanta is becoming a major data center hub, with the likes of Digital Realty, CoreSite, Switch, Google, Microsoft, Flexential, H5, and QTS developing or operating data centers in the Atlanta area – largely around Lithia Springs or Douglasville. The Peach State looks set to grow quickly in the coming years. Traditionally a Tier 2 market, the region has quickly become a major hotspot for data center development. DRI applications for more than a dozen campuses, totaling tens of millions of square feet across dozens of buildings, have been filed over the last couple of years. Despite this, a state lawmaker in Georgia has recently proposed a statewide moratorium on new data centers. The bill, reported by The Guardian , seeks to "allow state, county and municipal-level officials time to set necessary policies for regulating data centers … which permanently alter the landscape of our state.” Hillwood has been involved in multiple data center projects, including Texas , Illinois , and Poland . Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain Racing against time: how technology is accelerating data center builds Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 15 Dec 2025 Oracle says it might let customers bring their own hardware into its data centers Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 75 South Data Center Campus Atlanta Georgia Hillwood Hillwood Development Company Industrial VI Enterprises,LLC LBM Associates Spalding County Comments