Nscale in talks to acquire up to 8GW Monarch Compute Campus in West Virginia - report - DCD Home News The Cloud & Hybrid Channel Nscale in talks to acquire up to 8GW Monarch Compute Campus in West Virginia - report Land has already cleared regulatory hurdles and secured power equipment March 13, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say UK-based neocloud Nscale is reportedly in talks to acquire a large property in West Virginia with potential for up to 8GW of data center capacity. The property is said to be one of the largest available sites for AI data centers in the US and has already cleared the necessary regulatory hurdles, securing power equipment for the first phases of development. – Fidelis New Energy The property is located in Mason County and is currently owned by American Intelligence & Power (AIP). According to The Information , which first reported the story and cites sources with knowledge of the talks and fundraising documents accessed by the publication, Nscale would acquire American Intelligence & Power under the deal, gaining the site, along with its permits and power agreements. DCD has contacted Nscale for comment. AIP was founded at the start of 2026, a joint venture between Fidelis New Energy and 8090 Industries. The campus, dubbed Monach Compute Campus, is planned to have up to 8GW of capacity. The first phase will offer 2GW, expected online by 2027. Caterpillar has agreed to provide the necessary fast-response natural gas generator sets to cover the first 2GW. Fidelis first shared plans for the site in 2023 , with the project originally envisioned to be a 1GW campus powered via an adjacent hydrogen facility. The value of a potential deal has not been shared. The land is currently undeveloped, meaning that Nscale would have to further invest in the construction of data centers and the fit-out of facilities. Others interested in the property reportedly include Amazon, Meta, and Fluidstack. Based in the UK, Nscale currently operates data centers in Loughton, England; Glomfjord and Narvik, Norway; and Texas in the US. The neocloud recently completed a $2bn Series C funding round, saying at the time that this would help the company to accelerate its expansion in Europe, North America, and Asia. The company is reportedly exploring an IPO , with the company said to have hired Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan to help prepare for the listing in February 2026. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 20 Mar 2026 Edinburgh could approve potential data center moratorium Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in Cloud & Hyperscale Accelerating hyperscale deployments in the AI era 02 Apr 2026 Poolside seeks partners for data center in Texas after CoreWeave deal falls apart Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control Tags 8090 Industries AIP American Intelligence & Power Corporation Fidelis New Energy Mason County Monarch Compute Campus Nscale West Virginia Comments