Campbell County supervisors urged to reject data center proposal amid concerns Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 46 ° Wed 78 ° Thu 82 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY Campbell County supervisors urged to reject data center proposal amid concerns by Rachel Branning Wed, September 17, 2025 at 8:16 PM 3 VIEW ALL PHOTOS The Campbell County Board of Supervisors is considering a proposal that could allow three data centers to come to the Concord district. (Credit: Campbell County BOS) Comment on this story 5 Comment Share story Share topics: Data center Campbell County Noise pollution Light pollution Rezoning MESH Capital Quality of life Environmental concerns Campbell County, Va. (WSET) — The Commonwealth is home to the most data centers in the world, and now, the Campbell County Board of Supervisors is considering a proposal that could bring three more to our area. They would be located near Route 460 and Cabin Field Road, in the Concord district of Campbell County, and some aren't happy with the plan. I think that our quality of life would be greatly disrupted by this extended construction of a data center. Once built, a data center will produce noise pollution in the form of a constant hum. There will be diesel generators that will start up at the first sign of a power outage. We also will have light pollution; it puts out a lot of light at night. There's a strain on our electrical service, I'm sure," Bill Carson, who lives on Cabin Field Rd., said. The proposal, put forward by MESH Capital LLC, looks to rezone the 57.42 acres from heavy industrial, with conditions, to just heavy industrial, which would allow for the construction of a data center. Currently, the property has a proffer requiring development of the property to comply with a specific site plan; however, the applicant hopes to eliminate that requirement. According to the proposal , the owners want to construct three 150,000 square foot data centers on the land. "I'd like to appeal to every citizen in every district of Campbell County. I would ask you to please contact your supervisor and ask him to vote 'no' on this proposal. Once the door is opened, once they build a data center here, it'll be your community next," Carson said. "I just felt like this whole thing was done really quickly. I think it's a very important decision. I think it will greatly impact our quality of life." The Campbell County Board of Supervisors is considering a proposal that could allow three data centers to come to the Concord district. (Credit: Christian Irizarry/WSET) Ashby Smith owns property adjacent to the proposed land. He said approving the proposal would be a mistake. Do we as Campbell County citizens want the government to be able to put data centers wherever they want to? I don't think so," Smith said. "The only reason that they haven't put this thing up here already is because that proffer is in place. At a meeting in early September, the board voted to postpone a decision on the rezoning, as Concord supervisor Matt Cline wasn't in town for the meeting. "I asked for that because I didn't feel like we were represented," Carson said. "I thought it very strange that they would hold a meeting and vote on something like this, so important to our community, and our representative wasn't even there... However, the chairman of the board of supervisors closed the public hearing, that means only those people who were there that night are allowed to speak. We didn't have time enough to get enough people there." Carson and Smith noted that the only people notified about the proposal were those who own property adjacent to it, which is only 13 people, six of whom don't live permanently on Cabin Field Road. I don't think that constitutes all the neighbors of the proposal," Carson said. They're also worried about increased traffic in an already dangerous area, the use of more than one million gallons of water each day putting a strain on the water supply, as well as the effect of blasts from the nearby rock quarry on the data centers. ABC13's Rachel Branning took their concerns to Cline, asking if he is concerned about the potential negative impacts. "Absolutely," Cline said. "You know, the residents at Cabin Field would definitely be negatively affected by this data center. You've got light pollution, noise pollution, physical pollution, environmental concerns. There are a lot of concerns with where this data center would be placed. If you know the property, the property does not lend itself well to development. It's been zoned heavy industrial for 25 years, and no one's ever put anything on it. That's because the topography is basically straight up and down. To get it leveled off to put three large buildings that they'd like to put on the property, it would be a significant lift." SEE ALSO: Hitachi Energy expansion plans to bring 825 more jobs to Halifax County by 2028 Cline said he's taking all of his constituents' feedback into account. "There are people who have reached out and said that they were for it because they have a failing well and would love to have a water line run in front of their house. It really is a tough balance for me as an elected representative to make a decision that's best for everybody in the county," Cline said. Cline said he doesn't make decisions on how he'll vote until the vote is called; however, he feels there are places better suited for a data center. There are better heavy industrial sites in the county, if the county wanted a data center, than this one. We should be looking at those areas instead of somewhere that currently has no infrastructure for it and a lot of local residential properties," he said. Carson and Smith are urging supervisors to vote 'no,' and for others to speak out. "They're not seeing how this is going to impact the real people," Carson said. "Our voices as a public can be heard and we can know that our government actually works for us, as opposed to the other way around," Smith said. ABC13 also reached out to MESH Capital, which submitted the proposal, but we haven't received a response. Comment with Bubbles READ THE COMMENTS (5) The board's next meeting is October 7 at 6 p.m. Trending LPD identifies 34-year-old in fatal motorcycle crash on Fort Avenue The Lynchburg Police Department has identified the driver of the fatal motorcycle crash that happened on Friday. U.S. Sen. Mark Warner announces passing of his daughter The daughter of U.S. Sen. Mark R. Warner has passed away, according to a statement. Lawsuits pending at Virginia Supreme Court over redistricting referendum The redistricting referendum before Virginia voters is facing ongoing legal challenges, with multiple lawsuits still pending before the state’s highest court. Lynchburg announces parking, shuttle plan for new amphitheater events As Lynchburg prepares to open its new amphitheater, city officials are rolling out a plan to help crowds get in and out safely. Appomattox County leaders unanimously pass resolution opposing transmission line project The Appomattox County Board of Supervisors passed a resolution stating that they are against the proposed Valley Link Transmission Line Project. NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 3 2 adults and 3 pets displaced after fire in Roanoke, firefighters say 4 Illegal immigrant to be sentenced for groping girls at Fairfax High School 3 Polls now open in Virginia for the redistricting referendum 6 Appomattox County leaders unanimously pass resolution opposing transmission line project