$100 billion data center coming to Kansas City's Northland Skip to content FILE – A barge, lower right, unloads fertilizer at Port KC in Kansas City, Mo., Monday, May 23, 2016. The Missouri River is slowly resuming its role as a transportation corridor for commodities such as grain, scrap metal and fertilizer. (AP Photo/Orlin Wagner) (AP Photo/Orlin Wagner) by: Delaney Eyermann Posted: Aug 26, 2025 / 03:05 PM CDT Updated: Aug 26, 2025 / 03:05 PM CDT SHARE KANSAS CITY, Mo. — A $100 billion data center campus is coming to the Northland, Port KC announced Tuesday. Port KC said the campus will bring critical development infrastructure, significant community investment and long-term economic growth. The campus will be built on 379 acres of land within an existing industrial mega site, KCI-29. Port KC said the project will consist of six hyperscale data centers—totaling up to 1.8 million square feet. “Designed to power the next generation of cloud computing and technology-driven industries, the campus represents one of the largest technology investments in the region’s history by one of the world’s leading tech companies,” Port KC said in a news release Tuesday. The project is expected to generate more than $110 million in tax revenue across all phases over the bond term—compared to the current annual tax revenue of just $1,400. The first payment of $2.62 million will be paid during the first five years to the Northland School Districts’ new Northland Career Center, Port KC said. “Project Kestrel” will also invest in workforce development, according to Port KC. With each square foot built, a $0.25 per square foot charge will be collected and distributed to the area’s workforce development. An estimated $15.75 million would help train the area’s workforce, Port KC said. The project will deliver public infrastructure enhancements—including water, fiber and road networks, according to Port KC. “The development understands concerns surrounding the investment into data centers and is committed to utilizing a minimum of 50% of all energy from carbon-free resources,” Port KC said in the news release. “It will also be paying standard city water and wastewater metering rates and is committed to replacing above the amount of water it consumes to support water security and ecosystems.” The data center campus is anticipated to create approximately 50 high-paying jobs per phase, with average annual salaries exceeding $100,000. “This data center represents more than just a technology investment—it’s a long-term partnership with our community,” Port KC CEO Jon Stephens said in a news release. “From strengthening workforce development and education programs to improving infrastructure and creating high-value jobs, this project will help power both the digital economy and local opportunity for decades to come.” Construction on the first phase is set to begin in 2026, according to Port KC. This news comes a month after Port KC announced “Project Mica,” a new 500-acre tech campus coming to the Northland near Interstate 435 and Highway 169. FOX4 previously reported that Google bought the land for the campus. Add as preferred source on Google Suggest a Correction Close Modal Suggest a Correction Your name (required) Your email (required) Report a typo or grammatical error (required) Submit Correction Δ ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now Daily Headlines SIGN UP NOW Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now Breaking News SIGN UP NOW Trending Stories Gardner man killed in I-35 crash that took out sign Amazon driver caught on cam stealing cat from KC … LIVE BLOG: 2026 NFL Draft night two State Farm under investigation by Missouri US senator Deadly crash, fallen overhead sign closes I-35 for … Man who worked for KC nuclear facility missing BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks Kansas City Area Events