Salem Twp. rezones 1,582 acres for multibillion-dollar Amazon data center campus near power plants – Wilkes-Barre Citizens' Voice Skip to content Courtesy of Talen Energy Talen Energy Corporation has sold its Cumulus Data center, located adjacent to the Susquehanna Steam Electric Station, Talen's nuclear power plant in Salem Twp., to Amazon Web Services for $650 million. BY BOB KALINOWSKI STAFF WRITER, Amazon's attorney Jeff Wilhelm, of the Reed Smith law firm in Pittsburgh, outlines proposed changes to Salem Twp.'s zoning ordinance during Tuesday's public hearing. BY BOB KALINOWSKI STAFF WRITER, A large crowd attended Salem Twp.'s public hearing Tuesday regarding Amazon's request to rezone nearly 1,600 acres for its data center campus. BY BOB KALINOWSKI STAFF WRITER, Salem Twp.'s new zoning map includes a “Special Data Center Overlay District,” bottom right, that accommodates a request by Amazon Web Services BY BOB KALINOWSKI STAFF WRITER, Salem Twp. resident Brian Danowski, at the podium, told township supervisors that rezoning 1,582 acres in the township would unfairly devalue his 30 acres of industrial-zoned land. BY BOB KALINOWSKI STAFF WRITER, Amazon's attorney Jeff Wilhelm, of the Reed Smith law firm in Pittsburgh, explains the new “Special Data Center Overlay District” to residents following Tuesday's meeting. Show Caption Courtesy of Talen Energy 1 of 6 Talen Energy Corporation has sold its Cumulus Data center, located adjacent to the Susquehanna Steam Electric Station, Talen's nuclear power plant in Salem Twp., to Amazon Web Services for $650 million. Expand By Bob Kalinowski | bkalinowski@citizensvoice.com | The Citizens' Voice PUBLISHED: May 29, 2024 at 6:00 AM EDT | UPDATED: May 29, 2024 at 10:00 AM EDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... SALEM TWP. – E-commerce and technology giant Amazon secured a major zoning victory on Tuesday to advance its plans to build a multibillion-dollar data center campus near two power plants off U.S. Route 11 in Salem Twp. Supervisors voted 3-0 following a public hearing to grant Amazon’s request to rezone nearly 1,600 acres of land it has acquired in Salem Twp. into a new industrial “Special Data Center Overlay District.” Amazon officials said at the hearing that the company’s Amazon Web Services subsidiary hopes to construct 15 data center buildings over the course of the next decade in Salem Twp. that will create up to 600 good-paying jobs and produce millions in tax revenue each year. Solicitor Anthony McDonald estimated the township alone would collect about $7 million a year in new tax revenue following a decade-long tax discount period, in addition to whatever Amazon would pay in school and county taxes. Dozens of residents packed the public hearing, including several who said they’ve been recently approached by Amazon’s real estate broker with insulting low-ball offers in its quest to acquire even more land between the two power plants. The residents also complained that the mass rezoning of 1,582 acres – much of which was previously zoned agricultural – for industrial use would devalue their land going forward. “When there is more of something, what you have is worth less,” said Brian Danowski, who owns 30 acres of industrial-zoned land on Mingle Inn Road. Amazon’s attorney Jeff Wilhelm, of the Reed Smith law firm in Pittsburgh, said the company appreciated the big turnout and interest in the project. “It’s great the community came out. It’s a project the community should know about and participate in,” Wilhelm said. In March, Amazon bought Talen Energy’s Cumulus data center next to the Susquehanna nuclear power plant for $650 million, the first move in its plans to turn the region into a cloud-computing hub similar to its main data center hub in Northern Virginia, which opened in 2006. Amazon describes a data center as a round-the-clock operation that serves as “a physical location that stores computing machines and their related hardware equipment.” “It contains the computing infrastructure that IT systems require, such as servers, data storage drives, and network equipment. It is the physical facility that stores any company’s digital data,” Amazon says on its data center information page. Amazon officials said the local data center jobs would pay about $80,000 per year. A total of 46 parcels owned by Amazon Data Services Inc. and Talen Energy/Susquehanna Nuclear comprise the newly created Special Data Center Overlay District in the township’s zoning ordinance, most located between the Susquehanna nuclear power plant and the Caithness Moxie Freedom natural gas power plant along Mingle Inn Road. Five property owners on Mingle Inn Road said they were approached in recent months with offers from Amazon’s real estate brother to acquire their land – zoned industrial – but none accepted the offers as of now. John Parsons, a real estate principal with Amazon Web Services, said location of the power plants played a role in Amazon’s decision to plan its data center campus in Salem Twp. “We purposely chose this site because of the proximity to the power,” Parsons said. Several people questioned what will happen to the data centers when the nuclear power plant is eventually decommissioned. One reactor is set to be decommissioned in 2042, while the other is slated to be shut down in 2044, but their licenses could be extended as has happened in the past. The Salem Twp. Planning Commission previously recommended the supervisors approve Amazon’s request for a zoning change, while the Luzerne County Planning Commission offered no opinion after reviewing the plans. The Board of Supervisors previously approved a Local Economic Revitalization Tax Assistance, or LERTA, break for Amazon, or a 70% discount for 10 years, township officials said. After 10 years, Amazon will pay full taxes and generate about $7 million a year in taxes to the township, they said. Michael Hodgson, who owns 13.5 acres on Mingle Hill Road, said Amazon’s real estate broker made an unsolicited, written offer for his property that he wasn’t satisfied with. He and neighbors have hired an attorney. “We are willing to potentially walk away from our lives if we have to. But we are not willing to do it for pennies on the dollar,” Hodgson said. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X RevContent Feed More in News 2024 May 29 Close