Owners of Hancock County orchard concerned about proposed data center | wthr.com Breaking News More ( ) » Local News Public meeting set for proposed data center campus in rural Hancock County A public meeting to discuss the data center proposal is scheduled for May 27. To stream 13 WTHR on your phone, you need the 13 WTHR app. Download the 13 WTHR app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video HANCOCK COUNTY, Ind. — They are seemingly popping up all over the Hoosier State — massive data center facilities harvesting large amounts of digital data. Rural Hancock County could soon join the list of over 50 data centers currently operating in Indiana, like the one proposed in Franklin Township. Surge Development LLC submitted a preliminary plan to county leaders, named “Hancock County MegaSite.” It asks county commissioners to approve rezoning 775 acres of farmland at North CR 400 West at West CR 500 North, just east of the Indianapolis Regional Airport. The data center campus would store digital data and host other network infrastructures, servers and storage systems. Credit: Surge Development LLC “We've been in close communication with county representatives,” said Surge Development owner Chris King. “Understanding utilities, infrastructure that can support this kind of development in the area and been working to have conversations with potential users that would be interested sites like this." The plan, submitted last month, still awaits a public hearing. The meeting originally scheduled for next week has been postponed to May 27 because there was not long enough public notice for the meeting. Credit: Surge Development LLC The current site is zoned for agricultural use. Under the proposal, the site would be approved for light industry or a business park. Included in the plan is an assessment of utilities needed for the site. Surge Development LLC has already been notified that Aqua Indiana has the capacity to provide wastewater services to the site. Additionally, Duke Energy already has existing electrical transmission lines on the property. King said the data center is a major economic investment in the county. “It’s good-paying jobs, high-tech jobs,” King said. “These are good things for Indiana to be working for.” While no company has been added as a possible operator of the data center, King mentioned Surge Development has had conversations with several high-tech companies. Although early in the planning process, some neighbors are not fully on board with the plan. Credit: WTHR The proposed data center would be located next to Tuttle Orchards in Hancock County. Tuttle Orchards , which sits just east of the proposed site, released a letter voicing concerns about the project. "We have concerns that this proposal could significantly alter the character of the area and negatively impact Tuttle Orchards,” co-owners wrote. “The atmosphere and surrounding landscape to the farm are important to our success." No matter what the outcome of the project is, Tuttle Orchards said they will remain open and operational. Meetings of the Hancock County Plan Commission typically start at 6:30 p.m. at 111 American Legion Place in Greenfield. You can find the complete Hancock County MegaSite plan here : Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out