Clayco Compute | Clayco Skip to Main Content 1 2 3 4 / 4 Home Work Clayco Compute Providing End-to-End Solutions for Mission Critical Data and Advanced Technologies Infrastructure​ – We deliver our clients’ most complex mission critical projects at scale, while setting new heights for safety excellence, schedule predictability, and operational precision, leveraging the full strength of Clayco’s vertically integrated enterprise.​ Clayco Compute is currently involved in the construction of 57 active data centers across the country. With more than $3.6B of mission critical revenue in 2024, Clayco Compute has earned a top spot as one of nation’s largest data center builders. Clayco’s fully integrated, end-to-end solutions encompasses land acquisition, advanced utility management, design, engineering, equipment procurement, off-site modular solutions, self-perform concrete, mechanical, electrical and construction services, our approach mitigates operational risks, enhances predictability, and provides certainty for clients while positioning them as technological leaders in a rapidly growing marketplace. $ 12.70 B Mission Critical Revenue Delivered or Underway 3 GW Data Center Density Currently Underway TOP 5 ENR: Top Data Center Contractors Press Release Any project, anywhere: Mission critical project experience Why We Work Safe At our Confidential Client Data Center Campus project in Indiana, Clayco has branded all of the pathways and break areas with signage as a constant reminder to our superstar workforce about the importance of safety every day. Ceremonial Groundbreaking About 400 contractors, politicians, business leaders and educators crowded into the Discovery Room at Century Center in September 2024 to officially welcome Amazon Web Services into the community. For more on this event, visit South Bend Tribune EXCELLENCE IN SAFETY AWARD Our amazing Clayco Mission Critical team was honored with CyrusOne’s Safety Excellence Award for our commitment to keeping jobsites safe and healthy. MAKING SAFETY HISTORY Clayco is the first general contractor in Wyoming’s history to receive the “Cowboy Star VPP Award” and the first to be awarded a VPP Star campus in the global portfolio of this Confidential Hyperscale Data Center client. The team celebrated with a catered lunch and prizes awarded to our safety heroes. BEYOND THESE WALLS This summer, the Clayco team on our Virginia data center project came together to collect Back-To-School donations for local students in need. ADOSH VPP PARTNERS Congratulations to our Clayco team on a Mission Critical project in Mesa, Arizona. They received ADOSH (OSHA) Voluntary Protection Program inspection and have received their official ADOSH VPP flag and certification for being ADOSH VPP partners. We are proud of the hard work and collaborative effort our team put forth to achieve this recognition! CONTRACTOR OF THE YEAR Clayco was named the 2023 Safety Contractor of the Year by our confidential tech client. This project is one of four facilities located on an 85-acre multi-building planned campus and is expected to reach 280+ MW capacity when completed. Concrete Foundations The Open Compute Project Foundation (OCP) funded the test development and deployment of four concretes of varying levels of embodied carbon, as a collaborative effort among leading technology innovators to drive the adoption of lower-carbon concrete in data center construction. Learn More Award Winning Sustainability A Clayco Compute project was recently recognized with two prestigious awards for our work in lower-carbon concrete implementation. These accolades highlight our commitment to more sustainable construction practices and reducing embodied carbon in our data center infrastructure. Learn More Get In Touch Ryan McGuire, President, Construction and President, Clayco Compute +1 424-443-0111 [email protected] Ryan Abbott, President, Southwest Region +1 602-725-4995 [email protected] Galaxy Digital Helios Conversion Afton, Texas Related Digital Cheyenne Data Center Campus Cheyenne, Wyoming Illinois Quantum and Microelectronics Park Chicago, Illinois Actapio Day 3 & Day 4 Wenatchee, Washington NCSA Petascale Computing Facility – University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Champaign, Illinois University of Chicago Pod B Data Center Chicago, Illinois Equinix CH3 Elk Grove Village, Illinois IT Renaissance Data Center O’Fallon, Missouri Washington University Data Center Expansion St. Louis, Missouri SAVVIS SC-7 Data Center Santa Clara, California U.S. Cellular Corporation Schaumburg, Illinois Southwestern Bell Data Center St. Louis, Missouri AT&T Data Center St. Louis, Missouri Roper St. Francis Data Center Charleston, South Carolina OG&E Operating Center Oklahoma City, Oklahoma OG&E Metro Hardening Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Mary Kay Data Center Hoffman Estates, Illinois Magellan Health Services Data Center Maryland Heights, Missouri Confidential Client – Data Center BJC HealthCare Primary Data Center O’Fallon, Missouri