Edged Des Moines Des Moines 13 MW Critical Load Capacity 17+ PUE PUE Acres 1.15 PUE PUE Portfolio Design PUE Q3 2024 PUE PUE Space Available Download Spec Sheet Prime location Edged Des Moines is strategically located in the heart of America in a region known for its affordable renewable power, skilled workforce and high-speed fiber network. © Mapbox, © OpenStreetMap Prime location Edged Des Moines is strategically located in the heart of America in a region known for its affordable renewable power, skilled workforce and high-speed fiber network. © Mapbox, © OpenStreetMap Overview Power Security Cooling Edged Des Moines Data Center 9100 SE Four Mile Drive, Ankeny, Iowa 100,000+ sq ft building New build construction; one story building with two loading dock bays 24 x 7 x 365 access; 2 meet-me rooms Multiple fiber providers; four diverse points of entry Tier III design concurrently maintainable 100% uptime SLA Clean and Reliable Power Battery backup supporting all electrical and mechanical systems UPS with N+1 redundancy Generators with N+1 redundancy Standby generation systems utilize Tier 4 Final engines which reduce NOx and particulate matter emissions by up to 99% Redundant A+B side distribution Revenue-grade, transparent, real-time metering Tier 4 Final EPA Emission versus other tiers World Class Security & Fire Protection Perimeter fencing and exterior access gates Interior biometric readers, ID badges, CCTV Data halls have dual interlock pre-action sprinkler system Addressable smoke detectors with hot aisle early detection Advanced Waterless Cooling System Water Usage Effectiveness (WUE) 0.00 liters/kWh of cooling N+1 redundancy Glycol heat transfer with rooftop air cooled chillers Closed loop evaporators provide secondary cooling Flexible hot aisle designs ranging from 250 kW to 2.5 MW Uninterruptible maintenance service outside of white space ThermalWorks systems use non-toxic glycol with zero Global Warming Potential (GWP) and some of the lowest GWP refrigerants available anywhere (R1234ze or R515-B) Learn More Cooling system Coefficient of Performance (COP) 99.9999 Estimated “six nines” of availability with Tier III design standards and N+1 power, UPS and cooling systems Continuous systems monitoring and secure DCIM controls platform covering all mechanical and power systems Leading energy efficiency in any climate Edged is designed to deliver industry-leading average 1.15 portfolio-wide design PUE, consuming zero water for cooling. This reduces energy overhead by 72% compared with the global average. Uptime Institute, “The average annual power usage effectiveness (PUE) reported in 2025 was 1.54” Learn More 1 Uptime Institute, “The average annual power usage effectiveness (PUE) reported in 2023 was 1.58” Advanced waterless cooling Traditional data center cooling places heavy demand on local water resources. Edged solves this with our ThermalWorks closed-loop cooling system engineered for high-density, AI-driven workloads. It delivers powerful performance while consuming zero water in the critical markets we serve. Traditional data center cooling consumes vast quantities of water, putting significant pressure on local resources. To address this growing issue, Edged uses our ThermalWorks modular cooling system that supports the dense AI-driven loads that are reshaping the IT industry Uptime Institute, “A technology refresh at the start of the 2020s brought a marked increase in power for the new generation of highly performing and efficient servers that are the foundation of many IT infrastructures. Looking ahead, the rise in server power and cooling needs throws any past assumptions on future power densities and cooling technologies into the air.” yet consumes no water. Learn More About ThermalWorks Supporting 400+ kW per rack Edged fully modular cooling systems support up to 120+ kW per rack with air cooling and ultra-high densities up to 400+ kW with plug and play liquid cooling integration. Industry Average (Uptime Institute) Edged (air cooling) Edged (liquid cooling) 2 Uptime Institute, “A technology refresh at the start of the 2020s brought a marked increase in power for the new generation of highly performing and efficient servers that are the foundation of many IT infrastructures. Looking ahead, the rise in server power and cooling needs throws any past assumptions on future power densities and cooling technologies into the air.” Start saving with green IT. We can help. contact@edged.us Cookies Privacy Legal Edged | Endeavour Legal Notice | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy | Cookie Preferences © Copyright Edged, 2026. An Endeavour Company | Terms and Conditions | Privacy Policy | Acceptable Use Policy By clicking “Accept All Cookies” , you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. View our Privacy Policy for more information. Preferences Deny Accept Privacy Preference Center When you visit websites, they may store or retrieve data in your browser. This storage is often necessary for the basic functionality of the website. The storage may be used for marketing, analytics, and personalization of the site, such as storing your preferences. Privacy is important to us, so you have the option of disabling certain types of storage that may not be necessary for the basic functioning of the website. Blocking categories may impact your experience on the website. Reject all cookies Allow all cookies Manage Consent Preferences by Category Essential Always Active These items are required to enable basic website functionality. Marketing Essential These items are used to deliver advertising that is more relevant to you and your interests. They may also be used to limit the number of times you see an advertisement and measure the effectiveness of advertising campaigns. Advertising networks usually place them with the website operator’s permission. Personalization Essential These items allow the website to remember choices you make (such as your user name, language, or the region you are in) and provide enhanced, more personal features. For example, a website may provide you with local weather reports or traffic news by storing data about your current location. Analytics Essential These items help the website operator understand how its website performs, how visitors interact with the site, and whether there may be technical issues. This storage type usually doesn’t collect information that identifies a visitor. Confirm my preferences and close United states DATA CENTERS Language