‘I hope the rest of WV is watching’: Tucker Countians worry how power plant will impact economy Advertisement Advertisement Return to Homepage Top Stories: DOJ revives firing squads Golden orb ocean discovery Netanyahu cancer diagnosis $400K Maduro capture bet Israel-Lebanon ceasefire Oklahoma tornado ICE and Border Patrol funding Medical marijuana reclassification Navy secretary ousted Judge blocks Va. voting maps An anti-data center yard sign sits on the side of the road outside of the Billy Motel & Bar outside of Davis in Tucker County, West Virginia, on Saturday, Nov. 1, 2025. (Photo by Caity Coyne/West Virginia Watch) THOMAS, W.Va. — Walking along the downtowns of Thomas and Davis, West Virginia, over Halloween weekend, fake cobwebs and fall decorations were overshadowed by white and blue signs hanging in the windows of numerous businesses, all reading “No Data Center Complex in Tucker County.” They also hung in the windows of residential homes, outside of garages and off the side of the road on the main street between the two tourist-heavy towns. Parked outside the businesses in both towns, multiple cars were embellished with yellow, rectangular bumper stickers reading “I [heart] TUCKER COUNTY MORE THAN CHATGPT.” An anti-data center bumper sticker hangs on the door of the Stumptown Ales brewery in downtown Davis, West Virginia on Nov. 1, 2025. (Photo by Caity Coyne/West Virginia Watch) “I think it’s safe to say we’re in a bit of a battle right now,” said Angie Downs, who owns the Adventure Guild Game Shop in downtown Thomas with her husband, Jason Downs. “We all want to know more about what’s coming into our backyard. We want to know how it will affect us. We want to know what’s going to change.” Advertisement Advertisement All the signage around the towns is targeted toward Fundamental Data , a Virginia-based company planning to construct an off-the-grid natural gas power plant between Thomas and Davis to, eventually, power an enormous data center. The state Department of Environmental Protection granted Fundamental Data an air permit earlier this year for the project. Now, residents — represented by the law firm Appalachian Mountain Advocates — are attempting to appeal the permit and stop the construction as soon as possible. At the root of their resistance to the proposed development is fear over the unknowns , anger over the lack of respect and involvement , and concern over what unintended consequences such a facility could bring to the region. Advertisement Advertisement “I think a lot of people feel this whole thing was done without our involvement on purpose. It was shady,” said Frank Gebhard, a biologist and photographer who lives in Thomas. “The fact that they [Fundamental Data] aren’t even willing to answer any of our questions about the pollution or water usage or anything else — well why would I want someone like that as my neighbor?” Frank Gebhard, a biologist and photographer, sits behind the counter at McClumsy, a boutique in downtown Thomas, West Virginia, on Saturday, Nov. 1, 2025. Gebhard is concerned about how the proposed power plant and data center complex will affect the region’s tourism industry, as well as residents’ health. (Photo by Caity Coyne/West Virginia Watch) ‘We live out here for a reason’: Residents concerned over potential harms to tourism In a heavily redacted permit application, Fundamental Data says the proposed power plant would use gas-fueled turbines with heat recovery steam generators. Diesel would be kept on site in three 10 million gallon storage tanks as a backup power source in case of gas line interruptions. Those tanks would be 66 feet tall and 180 feet in diameter. Leaks from pumps and valves, among other pieces of equipment, are to be expected per the application . Operations for the facility should begin by 2028. Annually, the facility would have the potential to annually emit 99 tons of nitrogen oxides, 56 tons of carbon monoxide and 44 tons of volatile organic compounds. And aside from the emissions, the complex — once completed — could take up more than 10,000 acres between the rural, mountain communities that depend on outdoors tourism to support their economy. Advertisement Advertisement Polly Deely moved to the Canaan Valley earlier this year for the area’s skiing. She works at BLOOM, an arthouse and gallery in downtown Thomas. “This decision to put a [natural gas] power plant in the middle of a tourism hotspot — it’s so tone deaf, it makes no sense to me,” Deely said. “I’m very concerned about how this will change the climate around the Canaan Valley, if we’ll see as many people coming here for the wilderness, if it will affect the air quality and make people not want to ski or hike when they can probably go somewhere else with cleaner air.” Gebhard, who works at a boutique in Thomas in addition to his work as a biologist and photographer, said he believes a power plant and data center will ruin the area for dark skies photography. Many people come out to the valley for night time shots. It’s the perfect place due to the lack of light pollution. Light from a data center and emissions from the power plant, he said, could change all of that. Advertisement Advertisement “This just kind of really sucks. A lot of us, we live out here for a reason. We depend on other people coming out here for similar reasons — the clean air, the wilderness, the dark skies,” Gebhard said. “All that light, that noise, it’s going to ruin something really special.” Not everyone in downtown Thomas and Davis spoken to for this story was against the development. Four individuals said they support the power plant and data center due to the need for Tucker County to increase its revenues, however they would not agree to be quoted or have their names used for this article. Downs said she understands that need for more income, as well, and wants to see it herself. This past year, the Tucker County Commission enacted a 2% Special Emergency Ambulance Service Fee for recreational purchases and rentals to help support the cash-strapped EMS services, demonstrating the need for more funds. Downs is unsure, however, that the current proposal is the kind of industry or income the region should rely on. And if it doesn’t go as planned and does negatively affect tourism, she and other business owners stand to lose. She said between 70-80% of her monthly sales — of graphic novels, board games, novelty dice and more — come from individuals visiting the town. Advertisement Advertisement “We are reliant on people coming here to be in nature,” Downs said. “I don’t know if that same volume will exist when that nature is overtaken by diesel drums and smoke. How will they protect us?” On that first Saturday of November, there were nearly two dozen cars parked outside businesses in both Thomas and Davis with license plates from several different places — some as far away as Arizona, Canada and Vermont, and others from neighboring states, like Ohio, Kentucky and Pennsylvania. For decades, tourism has been central to life in Thomas and Davis. In 2023, according to the state Department of Tourism , more than $85 million was spent in Tucker County by tourists who come to hike, ski, snowshoe and more. If the power plant and data center is built, it’s likely that all but 70% of the property taxes paid on the complex would be sent to the state. That’s due to the passage of House Bill 2014 , which was meant to incentivize data centers to locate in the state by stripping localities of their right to pass or enforce any zoning ordinances to regulate their placement or activity. The legislation also set up a special tax structure that has half of all property taxes paid going to the state’s personal income tax reduction fund. Polly Deely, who came to Tucker County, West Virginia, for its skiing opportunities, sits behind the counter at BLOOM, a printshop in downtown Thomas, West Virginia, on Nov. 1, 2025. Deely said she’s frustrated with how litt