900MW data center campus plan withdrawn in Hanover County, Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 900MW data center campus plan withdrawn in Hanover County, Virginia Planning officials had recommended the application be refused February 03, 2026 By Matthew Gooding Have your say Plans for a 400-acre data center campus next to a golf course in Richmond, Virginia, have been withdrawn in the face of local opposition. Developer HHHunt revealed plans for the site, which would have been known as Hunter Hawking Technology Park, in September 2025 . The firm was planning to build on land adjacent to Hunting Hawk Golf Club, outside Wyndham in Hanover County. Site plan of the shelved Hunting Hawk Technology Park – HHHunt via Cushman & Wakefield|Thalhimer However, the company has decided to cancel the scheme after planners in the county recommended it be refused. It had been due to go before councillors at a meeting on February 25, but in a letter to the local authority, HHHunt's representatives said the firm was withdrawing its application. The data center plan has faced opposition from residents concerned about the impact of the development on what is a rural area, and the increased traffic it would bring to county roads. In comments reported by Richmond BizSense , Hanover supervisor Sue Dibble said the site should be reserved for residential development in line with the area’s local plan. It is currently zoned for agricultural use. HHHunt owns the land and had previously attempted to develop it into homes for over-55s. However, it lost a court battle with Henrico County in 2019 over a disputed connector road to Wyndham that the company said was vital for the development. As a result, it changed course and had been looking to build a 400-acre, 10-building data center campus on the land, with a total size of 3.9 million sq ft (362,320 sqm). A flyer for the campus claimed it could have supported up to 900MW. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 18 Feb 2026 Mediterra arrives in Catalonia, plans Barcelona data center Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era Tags HHHunt Hanover County Hunting Hawk Technology Park Richmond Virginia Comments