Calif. city's residents win triple victory in data center fight SF Gate Logo Hearst Newspapers Logo Skip to main content TRENDING 49ers trade Dee Winters, team's leading tackler in 2025, to Cowboys Technology Calif. residents dubbed ‘uninformed mob’ win triple victory in data center fight The Monterey Park City Council is bringing a multipronged approach to blocking data center development in its Los Angeles suburb By Stephen Council , Tech Reporter Updated March 5, 2026 9:50 p.m. At a Monterey Park City Council meeting on March 4, 2026, residents waved signs and provided public comment to advocate for a ban on data centers in the Los Angeles suburb. Ghawam Kouchaki for SFGATE Monterey Park has stepped to the front lines of the expanding resistance to data centers . On Wednesday, the Los Angeles suburb’s City Council voted unanimously to extend a data center moratorium and to put the topic before voters. The two 5-0 decisions come after a rapid campaign from local organizers, who rallied hundreds of residents against a data center that had been proposed for construction amid a swath of residential buildings. The “No Data Center in Monterey Park” group won a 45-day hold from the council back in January. The council’s decisions extend the block on permitting for 10.5 months and call for a special election in June on a ballot measure that would create a ban on data centers. Advertisement Article continues below this ad In another win for the anti-data center organizers, councilmembers also discussed layering on an ordinance to ban the buildings. During the meeting, City Attorney Karl Berger called the three efforts together a “belt, suspenders and girdle approach.” So many people signed up to protest data centers and discuss the council’s options during the Wednesday meeting that Mayor Elizabeth Yang had to warn the crowd: “If everyone speaks for 5 minutes, that’s 7 hours. We’ll end at 2 in the morning.” The meeting lasted six hours. Monterey Park residents describe their predominantly Asian and Hispanic city as peaceful and quiet, with a convenient location in the San Gabriel Valley near to downtown Los Angeles. The intense data center backlash is prompted by an Australian asset manager’s proposed project, a 247,000-square-foot site for computer servers that would also include a new electrical substation and, to stave off power interruptions, around two dozen diesel generators. SF Gate Logo Don't let Google decide who you trust. Make SFGATE a preferred source so your search results prioritize writing by actual people, not AI. Add Preferred Source The project has been in the works for a while — the LA Times reported that its owner bought the Saturn Street site, which currently holds an office building, for $39 million in 2024 — but the pushback is new. The group “No Data Center in Monterey Park” came together in December, part of a swell of international resistance to the facilities now being built in an investment blitz for artificial intelligence computing. The group has dispersed flyers, collected 5,300 petition signatures and spoken at City Council meetings. It argues that a data center’s drawbacks — costly electricity use, noise pollution and a potential to lower property values — outweigh the benefit of a small number of permanent jobs. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Monterey Park residents line up to speak at the City Council meeting on March 4, 2026, where organizers won big in their push against data centers in the Los Angeles suburb. Ghawam Kouchaki for SFGATE Steven Kung, who lives just a few minutes from the proposed data center site, is a co-founder of the activist group. As soon as he learned about the proposed site, he texted his husband, “Yikes, let’s fight this,” he told SFGATE on Thursday. He’s proud of the community’s quick rally to the cause over the past few months, but he’d still been “pessimistic,” he said, about the City Council giving the organizers everything they’d asked for in the Wednesday meeting. After lengthy sessions of public comment, though, the councilmembers won waves of applause with each vote. “The City Council once again exceeded our expectations, and I’m so pleased with them,” Kung said. “I feel so lucky we have a council that is flexible, and a council that is open to listening to its residents.” Yvonne Wong, a five-decade resident of Monterey Park, told SFGATE that seeing young, diverse speakers at Wednesday’s City Council meeting was a “gratifying” display: “I thought, ‘We have some hope.’” Advertisement Article continues below this ad Wong only learned about the data center fight in January, from a flyer at a gym in neighboring Montebello. She recognized the location — she had protested a proposed helicopter pad at the address back in 2018. When she started doing research on data centers, she learned that many of the county’s current sites are in less traditionally residential areas, like downtown Los Angeles. “Here in Monterey Park, here right next to us, I just thought this is not right,” she said, and then began to laugh. “Not in my backyard! NIMBY!” Though both Wong and Kung were delighted by the council’s Wednesday decisions, they’re also cautious about celebrating too soon. The proposed June election will rely on get-out-the-vote efforts, and lawyers for the data center developer accused the city of “ill will and bias” against the project in a February letter that threatened litigation. The letter praised the project as an “economic engine” and said it can be run “in an environmentally sensitive manner”; it accused anti-data center organizers of “rage-baiting an uninformed mob.” Kung thinks that opposition to the project has brought Monterey Park’s community together, citing friendly interactions with neighbors in parking lots and on streets. Advertisement Article continues below this ad It’s “sort of surreal,” Kung said: “In a real way, I have this Australian data center developer to thank for helping our community, by introducing something that’s so odious to it.” Work at a California tech company and want to talk? Contact tech reporter Stephen Council securely at stephen.council@sfgate.com or on Signal at 628-204-5452. Editor’s Note: This story was updated at 6:30 p.m., March. 5, to correct the number of generators for the proposed site. Advertisement Article continues below this ad BEST OF SFGATE Food | SF bakery finds unusual solution to neighbors complaining about its long lines Local | Hundreds of millionaires are trying to escape the US National Parks | I tried living the park ranger fantasy and spent most of it picking up garbage Travel | The California town that rose and died in 2 years Get SFGATE's top stories sent to your inbox by signing up for The Daily newsletter here. March 5, 2026 | Updated March 5, 2026 9:50 p.m. Stephen Council Tech Reporter Stephen Council was the tech reporter at SFGATE from January 2023 until March 2026. He had previously covered technology and business for the Information, the Wall Street Journal, CNBC and CalMatters. His reporting won awards from the San Francisco Press Club in 2021 and the Society of Professional Journalists, Northern California in 2025. Signal: @stephencouncil.36 CA Mini Crossword 181 people are playing right now. 142 players solved today. Can you? We created a crossword puzzle just for Californians. 181 people are playing right now. Play Now Most Popular 1 . Warriors reportedly grew tired of Steve Kerr’s political activism 2 . Beloved Mammoth skier dies suddenly in California backcountry 3 . He was a star singer. Then he ended up on San Francisco's streets. 4 . Tahoe ski area extends season after 81 inches of April snow 5 . California's quiet college war is about who gets a bachelor's degree SHOPPING If I could redo my bag collection, I’d pick these Build a smarter handbag capsule wardrobe with 12 essential styles that cover every occasion, from commuting to date night. SF Gate Logo Houseplant x Carbone’s smoking rooster ceram