Centra breaks ground on data center redevelopment in Minneapolis, Minnesota - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Centra breaks ground on data center redevelopment in Minneapolis, Minnesota Company takes over former Thomson Reuters site in Eagan August 06, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say US data center firm Centra has broken ground on a new facility in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The company this week announced the groundbreaking of MSP1, a new 12MW carrier-neutral facility in Eagan, Dakota County. Timelines for development weren't shared. – Centra Formerly an enterprise-owned facility, the data center will feature four fiber points of entry and redundant meet-me rooms. It will use free-cooling for around half the year. “MSP1 marks our bold transformation of a legacy data center site into a next-generation interconnection hub for the Midwest,” said Shelly Greco, VP of sales at Centra. “It exemplifies Centra’s core values—driving connectivity, championing sustainability, and investing meaningfully in the communities we serve.” On its website, Centra lists the facility at 610 Opperman. 610 Opperman Drive in Eagan was previously a Thomson Reuters site; the media firm sold a 2.5 million sq ft (232,257 sqm) office building and 180 acres of the 263-acre campus in Eagan, Minnesota, for $41 million to real estate firm Ryan Cos. last year , consolidating to another site in Eagan. Ryan Cos. aims to demolish the existing buildings and redevelop the site into a mix of industrial and residential properties, though earlier this year filed to keep the existing data center building on the campus. The existing data center was reportedly built around 1989. Centra was previously known as Deep Edge, prior to rebranding and expanding its footprint across the US. Backed by Columbia Capital, the company is developing a purpose-built interconnection data center in downtown Reno at 265 Keystone, scheduled to launch in early Q2 2026. Centra also manages the meet-me-room/carrier hotel at 200 S Virginia in Reno , Nevada, which includes a data center on the first floor. The company acquired the 340 Cumberland carrier hotel in Portland, Maine, in 2022. It also operates a facility in Charlotte , North Carolina, and another in the Borden Building in Columbus, Ohio. More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 13 Jan 2026 Moody’s predicts $3 trillion global data center investment over five years Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 09 Jan 2026 Exus Renewables closes $400m credit facility to fund growth to meet surging US data center demand Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 610 Opperman Drive Centra Dakota County Deep Edge Realty Eagan Minneapolis Minnesota Ryan Companies Thomson Reuters Comments