Google gets greenlight for data center in Tulsa, Oklahoma - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Google gets greenlight for data center in Tulsa, Oklahoma Sand Springs City Council votes in favor of project 6-1 February 05, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say The Sand Springs City Council has approved a data center campus development proposed by Google for just outside of Tulsa, Oklahoma. Dubbed " Project Spring ," the campus is planned for an 827-acre property located at 5615 OK-97, Sand Springs, OK 74063, and is being developed by White Rose Partners. – Sand Springs rezoning application A vote on the project was held on February 3, with City Council members voting 6-1 in favor. The land was annexed by the city in June 2025, a process that has been subject of complaint from residents, who claim that it was done secretly. Kyle Schmidt, president of Project Sand Springs Alliance - a group campaigning against the project, said after the meeting: “It’s not even so much about the data center as it is the way they went about annexing the land, keeping it a secret, hiding things from the public, possibly hiding things from the council so they would vote a certain way - that’s really what it was about. “It's government overreach without citizen input, and when they were called out for it, they decided their best course of action was to plow ahead and just railroad it over the citizens.” A lawsuit remains ongoing regarding the land annexation. According to the info page dedicated to the project, the actual campus will cover less than 10 percent of the site, and 30-40 percent is planned to be preserved as vegetative or green open space. KRMG further reports that the campus could have three data center buildings. Details about the size and IT capacity of the buildings have not been shared. Construction is hoped to begin in 2027 and be completed by 2029. Google has said it will pay for all required new infrastructure, including a dedicated substation and transmission lines. "This commitment safeguards public finances while supporting the resiliency of the grid. Additional safeguards are put in place through the contractual requirements in the electric service agreement with PSO, which include long-term commitments to minimum bills and other financial guarantees that ensure PSO and residents do not incur costs as a result of the new project demand," the company has stated. Sand Springs is located about eight miles west of downtown Tulsa. In August 2025, Google revealed it planned to invest $9 billion in expanding its cloud and AI infrastructure in Oklahoma. The company has an existing campus in Pryor, which was announced by Google in 2007 and launched in 2011. It has been expanded at regular intervals since. Google was also confirmed to be the applicant behind the Stillwater data center campus in March 2025 . Set on 400 acres of land, at the time it was said to see up to $3bn in investment. Details about the campus remain unclear, but a draft economic development plan from August 2024 suggested up to six buildings and that the data centers will span 300,000 square feet (28,870 sqm) each, with a data center per phase of construction. Beale Infrastructure is also developing a campus near Tulsa. The Clydesdale project is set to occupy 506 acres in Owasso, a city northeast of Tulsa, and see $1bn in investment. More in Cloud & Hyperscale Accelerating hyperscale deployments in the AI era 18 Feb 2026 Anthropic cloud spend expected to reach $80bn through 2029 Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 28 Nov 2025 CBRE’s Trammell Crow files to develop 12 million sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 5615 OK-97 Google Oklahoma Project Spring Sand Springs Tulsa White Rose Partners Comments