Black Mountain Power buys 432 acres in San Antonio, Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Black Mountain Power buys 432 acres in San Antonio, Texas Site could be set for data center development February 05, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Another data center development could be coming to San Antonio, Texas. First reported by BizJournals and citing Bexar County property records, Black Mountain Power LLC last month acquired 432 acres at the intersection of State Highway 16 and Lone Star Pass. – Google Maps The seller, energy exploration company Ballard Exploration Co. Inc., loaned Black Mountain about $64.5 million as part of the agreement. Founded in 2007, Black Mountain is an energy company largely focused on investments in oil and gas as well as lithium mining, but is also targeting battery storage, water, and carbon capture. The company is known to also be developing data centers. Black Mountain didn’t reply to BJ’s request for comment about it plans for the site. The company has previously filed to develop a 450-acre data center campus in the Fort Worth area of Texas. Black Mountain secures credit financing from real estate investment firm Elda River Capital Managementin November to advance its “Texas powered‑land strategy for hyperscale data centers.” "Black Mountain Power was built to meet surging demand for power‑proximate, shovel‑ready data center locations in Texas,” Rhett Bennett, Black Mountain founder and CEO, said at the time. BJ reports that Bennett last month told the Public Utility Commission of Texas that the company is developing more than 15 data centers across the Lone Star State. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 17 Mar 2026 Microsoft to invest $52m in data centers in Medina, Texas Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 28 Nov 2025 Microsoft gets approval to merge and resubdivide six parcels of land in Lyon County, Nevada Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Ballard Exploration Bexar County Black Mountain Black Mountain Energy Black Mountain Power LLC San Antonio Texas Comments