Soluna to develop two new data centers in Texas with a combined capacity of 350MW - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Soluna to develop two new data centers in Texas with a combined capacity of 350MW Brings total capacity in operation and development to 1GW August 26, 2025 By Zachary Skidmore Have your say Cryptomining and high-performance computing data center developer Soluna has announced two new projects in Texas with a combined capacity of 350MW, bringing its total capacity in operation and development to 1GW. Soluna projects in development and operation – Soluna “Reaching 1GW of clean computing projects in our total development pipeline is a transformative moment for Soluna. Getting these projects from development to operational will put us on par with some of the biggest companies in the world when it comes to clean-powered computing capacity, including Amazon, Meta, and Google,” said John Belizaire, CEO of Soluna. The first project announced was Project Fei, a 100MW data center project colocated with a 240MW utility-scale solar farm. The project, which will be located in northern Texas, is Soluna’s second largest to date. The project is currently advancing through land acquisition, power contract negotiation, and ERCOT interconnection planning. It is named after Dr. Fei-Fei Li, a leading computer scientist, best known for her work in artificial intelligence, particularly computer vision. She founded ImageNet, a data set that enabled rapid advances in computer vision. The second facility announced was Project Gladys, a 150MW data center colocated with a 226MW wind farm in southeast Texas. According to Soluna, the project is being developed in partnership with a “prominent US-based independent power producer.” Alike Project Fei, Gladys is also going through land acquisition, power contract negotiation, and ERCOT interconnection planning. The project is named after Dr. Gladys West, a mathematician whose work on geospatial modeling played a crucial role in the development of modern GPS systems. Soluna now has 11 data center sites in various stages of development: Project Sophie, Project Dorothy 1 & 2, Project Kati 1, Project Grace, Project Rosa, Project Hedy, Project Ellen, and Project Annie. Soluna claims a long-term pipeline totaling 19 projects and up to 2.8GW of capacity. Earlier this month , the company expanded its working partnership with Galaxy Digital. The expansion will see Galaxy deploy 48MW of compute power at Soluna’s Project Kati 1 in the Texas panhandle. More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 15 Jan 2026 QTS files to expand Fayetteville data center campus in Georgia Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 04 Mar 2026 Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee launches Next Generation Data Centers Institute Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags AI Bitcoin Cryptomine Project Fei Project Gladys Soluna Texas Comments