$440M global data center earmarked for Austin-area town MySA Logo Hearst Newspapers Logo Skip to main content Business Central Texas tapped for $440M data center, expanding tech footprint The upcoming facility comes as part of a multi-building development earmarked for the Central Texas community. By Kelsey Thompson July 16, 2025 Global data center EdgeConneX is developing a data center facility at the intersection of Wolf Lane and FM 535 in Cedar Creek. Google Images A Central Texas community on the outskirts of Austin is gearing up for massive, multimillion-dollar data center facility that will broaden the region's already sweeping tech industry footprint. Global data center EdgeConneX already operates more than 80 data centers across four continents and in more than 20 countries, with an existing Texas center already operational in Houston. Soon, the Austin area will join its rankings, with a large-scale project planned in Bastrop County. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Headquartered in Virginia, EdgeConneX is set to develop a $440 million data center facility in Cedar Creek, according to filings with the Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation registered on Monday, July 14. The upcoming 578,000-square-foot, two-story facility will be located at the northeast corner of Wolf Lane and FM 635, according to TDLR documents. Construction is tentatively set to kick off on August 1 and wrap on June 14, 2026, according to current project estimates. More For You H-E-B takes on California rival in top US grocery store visits Some call it a cult. We just call it a Texas lifestyle. First-of-its-kind thrift store opens in San Antonio. What to know With 10,000 new items out daily, get ready for a whole lot of new secondhand inventory in the Alamo City. Sam’s Club plans $7.7M revamp for 40-year-old South TX location It's one of the oldest Sam's Clubs in South Texas. Now, it's about to undergo a major digitally-focused transformation. Wilderness off-road model continues in Subaru’s Outback lineup for 2026 As Subaru’s flagship Outback wagon moves into its newest generation for 2026, the special Wilderness model continues in the lineup. 100-plus data centers now span the Hill Country. Here's where Tech giants are pouring billions into the Texas Hill Country and reshaping a region locals have long fought to protect. Back in July 2024, the Bastrop County Commissioners Court adopted an order that designated a plot of land in Cedar Creek as a commercial-industrial reinvestment zone, with multi-phased plans detailing four data center campus buildings on the property, with each building subject to its own tax abatement agreement, according to county documents. Advertisement Article continues below this ad In December 2024, commissioners approved entering into tax abatement agreements with EdgeConneX for a 10-year term, which was projected to create approximately 60 or more quality trade and engineering jobs and more than $6 million in wages and benefits, per county documents. During the construction period, county officials said the project was expected to create 400 to 600 daily, on-site construction jobs. MySA Logo Want more MySA? Make us a Preferred Source on Google to see more of us when you search. Add Preferred Source Data centers are facilities that are home to servers and other equipment necessary for internet consumption (including online shopping, banking and health care work) and are regarded as "energy intensive" facilities due to the constant need for cooling units and fans to prevent system overheating. The Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts noted nearly 80 registered qualifying data centers or center projects listed in its system that qualify for state sales tax exemptions, including Central Texas projects affiliated with Google and Giga Texas' data center. As of September 2024, there were nearly 300 data centers in Texas, with a strong concentration between Dallas-Fort Worth and San Antonio , according to the Texas Comptroller. July 16, 2025 Kelsey Thompson Most Popular 1 . Wemby unavailable for Game 3, still recovering from concussion 2 . Large hail, severe storms could hit San Antonio this weekend 3 . Rare aquifer tour opens at Texas' largest cave near San Antonio 4 . First-of-its-kind thrift store opens in San Antonio. What to know 5 . Major $4.5M upgrade coming to luxury Texas Hill Country resort Best Of Readers' Choice YourSA 2026 winners are here! Did your faves win? Explore the best in San Antonio for dining, beauty, entertainment and more. Readers' Choice The best tax services in San Antonio File smarter, not harder, with help from the people who actually read the fine print. Readers' Choice These private schools in San Antonio are kid-tested, parent-approved According to locals, these are the schools worth touring. Readers' Choice The best foundation repair companies in San Antonio Your dream home deserves a solid foundation. Readers' Choice The best med spas in San Antonio To look your best, you’ve got to work with the best. Puzzles The classic newspaper crossword gets a makeover Our new award-winning games from Puzzmo are a free, modern twist on the classic newspaper crossword... Puzzles Cross|word An approachable redesign to a classic, featuring exclusive weekday puzzles. Puzzles Flipart A quick daily flip. Finally someone cracked the code on digital jigsaw puzzles. Puzzles SpellTower Word search but with strategy. Clearing the board feels really good. Puzzles Really Bad Chess A random board...sure. Three queens and seven knights… why not? Enjoy this modern take on the... Puzzles Typeshift Anagrams with a literal twist. Getting the last word is always possible, rarely easy. Shopping Shopping This AeroPress Go coffee maker is 25% off for Cyber Monday Shopping This new YETI bottle is on sale for Cyber Monday: Get 30% off Shopping Save up to 20% on select Weber grills with this limited-time Cyber Monday sale Editor's Pick How to challenge Bexar County property taxes Houston and Texas Former TX reporter opens up about parents' killings Travel George Strait road trip: What to do on the way to Lubbock Shopping The best camping gear storage solutions Let's Play