Switch buys 176 acres at Apex Industrial Park, Las Vegas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Switch buys 176 acres at Apex Industrial Park, Las Vegas New data center campus incoming? January 20, 2026 By Matthew Gooding Have your say Data center operator Switch has purchased 176 acres of land outside Las Vegas, Nevada. Property records show that Rob Roy’s firm paid $85.5 million for the site at Apex Industrial Park, northeast of Las Vegas, adjacent to Highway 93. DCD has contacted Switch for comment on whether it is planning to build a new campus on the site. News of the purchase was first reported by the Las Vegas Review Journal . Highway 93, soon to get its own data center campus? – razyph/Getty Images Las Vegas-based Switch operates large 'Prime' data center campuses in Austin, Texas; Reno and Las Vegas, Nevada; Grand Rapids, Michigan; and Atlanta, Georgia. Over the last year, it has filed to expand further in Austin and Atlanta . In July , it announced it was developing smaller, denser data centers specifically for AI workloads, and has built a proprietary liquid cooling system so that it can serve hyperscale clients running AI, alongside its traditional colo customer base. Its Core Campus, located in Las Vegas, Nevada, will have up to 495MW of power upon full build-out. Switch is owned by DigitalBridge, the digital infrastructure investor that is set to be purchased by SoftBank for $4 billion. If it pursues a data center campus build-out at the Apex Industrial Park site, it will become the second operator in the area. DCD reported in August that Novva Data Centers had paid $181 million for 205 acres at the park, a considerably higher price per acre than Switch has apparently paid. More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 04 Mar 2026 Elon Musk's xAI to spend $659m on new building for Memphis data center cluster Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 28 Oct 2025 Meta signs 600MW solar PPA with Engie in Texas Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Apex Industrial Park Las Vegas Nevada Switch Comments