Microsoft reveals they are behind proposed Lowell data center | wzzm13.com Breaking News More ( ) » Local News Microsoft reveals they are behind proposed Lowell data center Microsoft, in a letter, said it aims to address community concerns over a proposed data center in Lowell Township. Credit: WZZM LOWELL, Mich. — In a letter to Lowell Township Supervisor Jerry Hale, Lowell Township Trustees and the Lowell Township Planning Commissioners, Microsoft introduced itself as the company behind the highly contentious proposed data center in the community. "We are introducing ourselves now because we have observed that the community would like more information about the proposal, and we believe it is important to be transparent about our intentions moving forward," read the letter. The data center project was put on pause in December. The city said in a Facebook post at the time that if and when the prospective tenant of the data center comes forward with specific details about what they're asking for in terms of water and wastewater use, the city would be open to reengaging with the project. Now, Microsoft appears to be making an effort to do just that, as a portion of the letter reads: "It is important to note that we are at the most preliminary stage of our development planning efforts. Datacenter planning is a multi-year and capital-intensive program, and we plan for years in advance to ensure we have sufficient infrastructure in the right places to serve our customers. Our development proceeds linearly from land acquisition, to permitting, to construction and operation. Because we are at the preliminary stage, we do not have all the answers yet about what our project will look like or when we would begin construction, but we are committed to sharing information and updates when they are available including design details that would be introduced during the site plan review." They said the letter is meant to begin an open conversation between them and the community, and while the project is still in its early stages, they pledge to "contribute to a sustainable future, advance prosperity and well-being, and operate responsibly as a good neighbor." You can read the full letter below: Related Articles AG Nessel opposes fast-track approval of AI data center power agreements DATA CENTER | Microsoft seeks rezoning for potential data center in Gaines Township Report pushes for more water regulations amid data center expansion concerns Close Ad To stream 13OYS on your phone, you need the 13OYS app. Download the 13OYS app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video In Other News 'Decided to part ways' | CEO out at John Ball Zoo Before You Leave, Check This Out