Behind-the-meter data center proposed outside Richmond, Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Behind-the-meter data center proposed outside Richmond, Virginia LS Power plans four-building campus next to Doswell energy plant March 13, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A data center outside Richmond is being planned that could potentially feature a behind-the-meter connection to a nearby natural gas plant. – Google Maps The Richmond Dispatch reports LS Power is proposing a 205-acre data center campus at 10165 Old Ridge Road in Hanover County. The site is north of Richmond and Ashland off Route 95 on land south of the King’s Dominion amusement park and NRG’s Doswell Energy center. Site plans suggest four data center buildings are planned. The development would include a GE Vernova LM6000 gas turbine, though it is unclear if the campus would be entirely reliant on natural gas. The site would include on-site solar. Founded in 1990, LS Power is a power generation firm headquartered in New York. It has developed and acquired more than 47GW of power generation across a diversified portfolio of energy assets. Last year, LS Power filed plans with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to sell around 300MW of power from two of its gas-fired units at its 1.19GW Doswell natural gas plant in Ashland to a planned behind-the-meter data center. LS Power recently sold a portfolio of natural gas generation facilities to NRG. The acquisition included 18 natural-gas-fired generation facilities totaling approximately 13GW of capacity, along with CPower’s commercial and industrial virtual power plant (C&I VPP) platform. The Doswell site was one of the acquired facilities. The company claims to have developed or acquired 50GW of power generation, including utility-scale solar, wind, hydro, battery energy storage, and natural gas-fired facilities. Its LS Power Grid has built 780+ miles of high-voltage transmission, with an additional 350+ miles currently under construction or development. The firm recently acquired BP’s US onshore wind business. More in Construction & Site Selection HP SitePrint for data centers Sponsored Power, water, and progress: Sorting fact from fiction in data centers Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in Behind-The-Meter 19 Apr 2026 Think-tank sues Tennessee county over data center and crypto ban, calls block unconstitutional 14 Apr 2026 Oracle expands fuel cell supply deal with Bloom Energy to 2.8GW 09 Apr 2026 Global Power Solutions partners with NADCAP to develop decentralized power infrastructure for proposed 100MW data center Tags 10165 Old Ridge Road Ashland Behind-the-Meter Doswell Power Plant Hanover County LS Power NRG Energy Natural Gas Richmond Virginia Comments