Jones County data center faces growing local opposition | 13wmaz.com Breaking News More ( ) » Local News 'Moving extremely too fast' | 600-acre data center proposed for Jones County faces early opposition The application, submitted by Eagle Rock Partners and Thomas & Hutton Engineering, comes less than three weeks after commissioners approved new rezoning measures. To stream 13WMAZ on your phone, you need the 13WMAZ app. Download the 13WMAZ app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video MACON, Ga. — A proposed 634-acre data center in Jones County is drawing growing opposition from neighbors just days after county commissioners approved new zoning ordinances allowing such facilities. County documents show the project would be constructed approximately 3 miles southwest of the intersection of Highway 49 and Highway 18. The application, submitted by Eagle Rock Partners LLC and Thomas & Hutton Engineering on Sept. 25, comes less than three weeks after commissioners approved an ordinance on Sept. 16 that permits data centers in areas zoned with specific conditions. The team is responsible for other notable data center projects proposals that have been introduced in Central Georgia this year. On Sept. 16, 13WMAZ first reported that the private real estate and project management company and their engineering firm coordinated private meetings with Twiggs county commissioners prior to the public hearing process for a 291-acre data center called Pine Ridge Technology Park. Following the project's approval on Sept. 18, a group of Twiggs County residents filed a lawsuit to stop construction, arguing the county violated its own zoning ordinances in its approval process. Thomas & Hutton Engineering also provided engineering services for a failed 900-acre data center project in Bolingbroke, Monroe County, which was denied by the Planning & Zoning Board in early August following strong resident opposition and environmental concerns. Developer Ingram Timber Enterprise s is currently suing Monroe County, alleging the county’s zoning policies are illegal and their request was wrongfully denied. after the Monroe County Board of Commissioners unanimously voted against the project last month. Jones County Administrator Jason Rizner told 13WMAZ on Sept. 19 that no applications had yet been filed. Brian Wall, owner of Piedmont Insurance in Gray and a neighbor to the proposed site, was among dozens of neighbors who heard about a yellow rezoning sign spotted outside the site on Thursday. Credit: Facebook / Chandler McMillan Wall says he's concerned the project could bring light and noise pollution, strain local water resources and offer few jobs in return, which were among the concerns also shared by residents in Monroe and Twiggs counties. "The only thing we have is a difference in geography. They tried it there, it didn't work. They tried it there. There's a lawsuit. Now they're trying to stick it somewhere else. We have a place that they can stick it," Wall said. "The county is moving extremely too fast. There are only a handful of individuals that want to see this come to fruition. If we have to go that distance, we will allow the ballot box to determine whether we like it or not." A grassroots effort is now forming in response. Dustin Riley launched a Facebook group titled “No Data Centers in Jones County,” which gained hundreds of members within 24 hours. "These things produce a massive amount of noise. The people that move out here prefer a country, small-town way of life," Riley said. "I've seen very few comments from anywhere of people that support having these things coming to their communities." Under Jones County's new zoning rules, data centers must keep principal building heights under 75 feet, maintain a 100-foot buffer on all sides, conceal HVAC systems from public roads and neighboring properties limit lighting spillover. Data centers must also use closed-loop cooling systems to conserve water and are required to submit environmental impact studies with mitigation plans. Cryptocurrency mining is explicitly banned under the ordinance and sound levels must be at or below 45 decibels during the day and 35 decibels at night. According to the application, the facility would be served by a Jones County water main extension along SR 18, while sewer needs would be met through onsite septic systems. Neighbor Kathy Simmons worries about potential environmental impacts, energy costs, and the effect on wildlife, noting that deer frequently cross her pasture. “I have heard that these big data centers have very strong potentials to run aquifers dry. I’m on a well. Horses need water or horses die,” Simmons said. “If my well runs dry or even runs less, that’s not okay.” Simmons, who moved to her rural farm off of Bethlehem Church Road last year, says she was drawn by the quiet landscape and the promise of open land for her horses. Her backyard lines the proposal site for the data center. That land is owned by Weyerhaeuser, one of the largest private landholders in the United States. Simmons says she first noticed crews with heavy machinery clearing trees behind her home back in May. “I was excited. I thought, okay, it'll never be developed. It was literally a selling point for me when I purchased this property," Simmons said. "We're so rural, and we're so kind of out there, and there's not a lot around us. It's all mainly just rural farmland. So something like this wasn't even remotely on my radar." The project requires approval from both the Jones County Planning and Zoning Board and final authorization from county commissioners. 13WMAZ reached out to county commissioners, P&Z leaders, and project developers for comment. They did not issue a response at the time this article was published. Planning & Zoning leaders have scheduled required public meetings for October 20 and November 4 at 6 p.m. at the Jones County Government Center. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out