Archbald hearing reveals Project Green Mountain's link to other data center Skip to content (Left to right) Archbald council members Tom Aniska, Erin Owen, Richard Guman, Vice President Joseph Altier III and President Louis Rapoch look on during a public hearing on the Project Green Mountain data center campus at the Valley View High School in Archbald on Thursday, March 19, 2026. (FRANK WILKES LESNEFSKY / STAFF PHOTO) By Frank Lesnefsky | flesnefsky@scrantontimes.com | The Times-Tribune PUBLISHED: March 20, 2026 at 5:28 PM EDT | UPDATED: March 20, 2026 at 5:44 PM EDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... ARCHBALD — Project Green Mountain and Project Gravity data center campuses share many striking similarities, with the strongest link between the two projects inadvertently revealed during a public hearing Thursday night. Although the projects both propose to build seven data centers with 138,000-square-foot footprints, Project Green Mountain had not been directly tied to a specific developer. While Project Gravity’s earliest filings last year used the name Western Hospitality Partners — a data center developer that has proposed campuses in Kentucky, Illinois and Indiana — a Jan. 26 conditional use application for Project Green Mountain filed with the borough used only a nondescript limited liability company while directing correspondence to a Pittsburgh-based law firm. But during a presentation Thursday night in the Valley View High School auditorium before a rowdy crowd of 300-plus people, representatives for Project Green Mountain shared their screen. The computer’s file directory, visible in a web browser, included “Western Hospitality,” appearing to link Project Green Mountain to Project Gravity’s developer. A file directory showing “Western Hospitality” is displayed during a public hearing on the Project Green Mountain data center campus at the Valley View High School in Archbald on Thursday, March 19, 2026. (FRANK WILKES LESNEFSKY / STAFF PHOTO) Scranton-based attorney Raymond Rinaldi of Rinaldi & Poveromo PC, who represents both Project Gravity and Project Green Mountain, declined to comment when pressed about ties to Western Hospitality Partners. Reading from a prepared statement following the hearing, FTI Consulting Senior Director Nicole Schomburg said, “Project Green Mountain is a wholly and independently owned entity. Our standalone business is exclusively focused on the proposed project.” The hearing was the first for Project Green Mountain, which proposes to build seven data centers at the Stavola Quarry. The data center proposal is Archbald’s sixth and most recent. Council will eventually vote on whether to approve the project’s application. Like previous meetings, residents who oppose data centers carried yellow-and-black signs with matching shirts. They vocalized their opposition with shouts and boos as representatives from Project Green Mountain discussed site plans and financial incentives, offering the borough $2.25 million through a community benefits agreement, or host agreement, if the campus moves forward on nearly 271 acres east of the Casey Highway. Newly appointed council President Louis Rapoch, Vice President Joseph Altier III and council members Erin Owen, Richard Guman and Tom Aniska were present. Former Council President Dave Moran and Councilwoman Marie Andreoli were absent. Council members voted Wednesday to remove Moran from his position as president, as well as removing Guman as vice president and Andreoli as president pro tempore, according to a livestream of the meeting. Council subsequently voted 4-3 to appoint new leadership, with Rapoch, Altier, Owen and Aniska voting on the new appointments, and Moran, Guman and Andreoli voting against their replacements. Owen is the new president pro tempore, making her third in line. The hearing Thursday also revealed Project Green Mountain’s planned energy usage, information on how it will cool its data centers, details on its backup power and the nearly 2 million gallons of diesel fuel it will store on site. There are six data center campuses proposed in Archbald, amounting to 51 individual buildings, with six more campuses proposed throughout Lackawanna County in Clifton and Covington townships, Dickson City, Jessup, Olyphant and Ransom Twp. Residents display “No Data Centers” signs during a public hearing on the Project Green Mountain data center campus at the Valley View High School in Archbald on Thursday, March 19, 2026. (FRANK WILKES LESNEFSKY / STAFF PHOTO) A child holds a “No Data Centers” sign during a public hearing on the Project Green Mountain data center campus at the Valley View High School in Archbald on Thursday, March 19, 2026. (FRANK WILKES LESNEFSKY / STAFF PHOTO) Archbald resident David Polansky, right, hands Lackawanna County Commissioner Bill Gaughan a “No Data Centers” sign prior to a public hearing on the Project Green Mountain data center campus at the Valley View High School in Archbald on Thursday, March 19, 2026. (FRANK WILKES LESNEFSKY / STAFF PHOTO) Residents display “No Data Centers” signs during a public hearing on the Project Green Mountain data center campus at the Valley View High School in Archbald on Thursday, March 19, 2026. (FRANK WILKES LESNEFSKY / STAFF PHOTO) Representatives for Project Green Mountain attend a public hearing on their data center campus at the Valley View High School in Archbald on Thursday, March 19, 2026. (FRANK WILKES LESNEFSKY / STAFF PHOTO) Show Caption 1 of 5 Residents display “No Data Centers” signs during a public hearing on the Project Green Mountain data center campus at the Valley View High School in Archbald on Thursday, March 19, 2026. (FRANK WILKES LESNEFSKY / STAFF PHOTO) Expand Project details Project Green Mountain would encompass seven two-story data centers, each with a 138,000-square-foot footprint rising to 65 feet tall. The project’s conditional use application describes a PPL Electric Utilities-owned switchyard on the campus and a data center-owned substation, though PPL’s recently announced plans for a large electric infrastructure project describe a utility-owned substation . The L-shaped site would span about a mile and a half, according to testimony from Justin Moceri, the project manager and land development services practice builder from engineering firm Kimley-Horn, which prepared Project Green Mountain’s conditional use application. The land is primarily zoned for coal mining, but some of the site falls into a mining and resource conservation district, he said. The main entrance will be the existing Stavola Quarry entrance, and there will be a second emergency-only access about 1,000 feet east of it on Salem Road, he said. Archbald Borough Council voted in November to amend its zoning to regulate data centers. In doing so, it applied an overlay district on the site allowing data centers as conditional uses. The campus would use an estimated 525 megawatts of power based on an assumed 75 megawatts per building, Moceri said. The campus would use a closed-loop cooling system consisting of water and glycol — antifreeze — that would circulate and absorb heat from the computer equipment, he said. Project Green Mountain seeks to use 14,000 gallons of water daily from Pennsylvania American Water for domestic uses like sinks and toilets. The campus would discharge up to the same amount to the Lackawanna River Basin Sewer Authority. In response to a question from Aniska about the closed-loop cooling system, Moceri compared it to an air conditioning unit. It would be filled with water that would be hauled in by truck “every couple years,” he said, later clarifying the system would be filled every two to three years. Attorney Brett C. Flower cross-examined Moceri on behalf of Archbald Borough. Council voted Wednesday to hire an environmental engineer selected by Flower’s law firm, Eckert Seamans. Thursday was the first time Flower represented the borough at a data center hearing. She asked 