Proposal for data center in Leesburg, Virginia, approved - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Proposal for data center in Leesburg, Virginia, approved Timeline and estimated capacity not available July 29, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say A proposal for a data center in Leesburg, Virginia, has been approved. Leesburg is a town located northwest of Washington, DC. It is the county seat of Loudoun County. – Loudoun County Board of Supervisors On July 15, the Loudoun County Board of Supervisors voted by a margin of one to approve a rezoning application for a 22-acre land parcel along Crosstrail Boulevard and Sycolin Road, turning the parcel’s designation from Joint Land Management Area to Planned Development - Industrial Park. The deciding vote was cast by County Chair Phyllis J. Randall, who told Loudoun Now : “ I had a very hard time with this application for quite a few reasons, and I have been 51-49 back and forth and back and forth.” The data center, known as the Cross Mill Center, would be located near Leesburg Executive Airport. Development timelines and estimated capacity were not made available. This permits up to 556,746 sq ft (51,723 sqm) worth of data center uses or up to 416,000 sq ft (38,647 sqm) of warehousing or distribution facility uses, or up to 218,000 sq ft (20,252 sqm) of flex industrial uses. The Board was previously unable to make a decision on the data center proposal because motions to approve or deny the project lacked majority support. JK Land Holdings is the developer. Owned by Chuck Kuhn, the company is a major data center player in Loudoun County with multiple projects in various stages of development. Their Greenlin Park project, located on an 83-acre land parcel along Dulles Greenway, recently got approval from the Board of Supervisors. More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 19 Feb 2026 Iron Mountain partners with energy storage firm Calibrant to deploy 23MWh BESS unit at New Jersey data center Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 21 Nov 2025 Amazon Data Services gains approval for data center on 56 acres in Gilroy, California Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach Tags Cross Mill Center JK Land Holdings Leesburg Loudoun County Loudoun County Board of Supervisors Phyllis Randall Virginia Washington DC Comments