Rezoning for $1B Franklin Township data center clears first hurdle | wthr.com Breaking News More ( ) » Local News Rezoning for $1B data center in Franklin Township clears first hurdle A billion-dollar data center plan in Franklin Township cleared a key step, but residents and local officials remain concerned. To stream 13 WTHR on your phone, you need the 13 WTHR app. Download the 13 WTHR app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video INDIANAPOLIS — Plans to rezone nearly 470 acres in Franklin Township for a billion-dollar data center are coming closer to fruition. The hearing examiner of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Development Commission held a public hearing Thursday afternoon. During that hearing, the proposal for an anonymous Fortune 100 tech company to stake ground in southeastern Indianapolis was approved and sent to the development commission. The project bears the name "Project Flo," with the entity named as "Deep Meadow Ventures, LLC." But not everyone is convinced the tradeoff is worth it. Many residents are skeptical about what a data center brings. Neighbors to the area present a laundry list of items from noise, traffic, flooding and utility depletion. "I believe that it's going to prevent other businesses from having their energy needs, and that I can't have," Councilor Michael-Paul Hart (R-District 20) said. "I have to have the ability, when a business wants to come in and can provide a couple 100 jobs, that we can light up energy for them." Credit: WTHR A billion-dollar data center is planned for 470 acres in Franklin Township. Attorney for the project, Joseph D. Calderon, said concerns over wells, power and flooding have been addressed. "We've gone to the trouble to reach out to Citizens Energy and AES at this early stage for support letters to assure folks that, no, they are not going to be without water or power," Calderon said during the public hearing. "In fact, we are upsizing water and sanitary, sewer and bringing to the property line, so those folks who want to, we're not going to mandate it if they want to connect to say it's public sanitary and public water, they can do so, and we think that's a benefit." It comes the same week the Indiana Economic Development Corporation approved incentive packages for four data center projects statewide, including "Project Flo." Others include projects in LaPorte, Morgan and Hancock counties. Credit: WTHR graphic IEDC approved incentive packages for four data center projects around Indiana. Three of them are in central Indiana. Residents like Andrew Filler hoped the hearing examiner would reject the proposal. Now, he and other residents are planning to appeal. "We got to get more of the community involved, get more petitions signed, get more involvement with the community," Filler said after the meeting. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out