Summit View Business Park | Franklin County, VA, Economic Development Skip to Main Content Home Sites & Buildings Summit View Business Park Summit View Business Park Business Park Ready for Development in Franklin County, Virginia With a central East Coast location, Summit View Business Park is Virginia’s premier business park. Summit View features ready-to-build pad sites with in-place utilities and road infrastructure. It’s located within a day’s drive of three-fourths of the United States. Utilities include electricity, natural gas, water/sewer, fiber/broadband, and is centrally located along U.S. 220 in Franklin County, Virginia, just 20 minutes from downtown Roanoke. The park is less than 20 miles from an interstate and is in proximity to international, commercial, and general aviation airports. Norfolk Southern’s bulk transfer terminal is approximately 20 miles from the site. It provides convenient access to bulk merchandise transported via rail and can handle food ingredients, construction materials, metals, and manufacturing inputs. The Port of Virginia is within a day’s drive of the site. The park is located within a federally designated Opportunity Zone. Summit View is located in a Foreign Trade Zone. Summit View Business Park also includes walking trails designed to boost the physical and mental well-being of your employees and make your company even more attractive to high-skilled workers that are in high demand. In Good Company: Businesses at Summit View Business Park Traditional Medicinals Traditional Medicinals announced in January 2020 that they would be locating their new $29.7 million East Coast manufacturing plant in the Summit View Business Park. Traditional Medicinals is the leading seller of organic herbal wellness tea in the U.S. and is a proud Certified B Corporation. Founded in 1974 in Sonoma County, California, Traditional Medicinals is an independent company that embraces sustainability, ingredient purity, and social and environmental activism. For additional information, visit www.traditionalmedicinals.com . ValleyStar Credit Union Administrative Campus ValleyStar Credit Union’s Administrative Campus is open at Summit View Business Park. ValleyStar created 20 jobs with a total of 40 positions at the 19,000-square-foot facility and was one of the first tenants of the business park. ValleyStar Credit Union has been serving members and businesses with financial products and services since 1953. ValleyStar serves more than 54,000 members while providing nine branch office locations across five regions in Virginia and North Carolina. They are one of the fastest-growing credit unions in the nation as well as one of the most solvent and efficient in the region. For additional information, visit https://www.valleystar.org . Stik-Pak Contract Packaging Stik-Pak relocated to a new manufacturing and packaging facility in the North Region of the Summit View Business Park. The contract packaging company, a subsidiary of M&H Holdings, built a 50,000-square-foot facility on 8.8 acres and employs 85-95 people. The facility is expected to expand to 100,000 square feet within six years. Stik-Pak has been doing business in Franklin County since 2010. The company serves the food industry and is SQF 2 certified, FDA registered and certified USDA Organic. For additional information, visit https://stikpaksolutions.com/ . Government Websites by CivicPlus® Loading Loading Do Not Show Again Close Arrow Left Arrow Right [] Slideshow Left Arrow Slideshow Right Arrow