Protest planned over 1-gigawatt Van Buren Township data center proposal – Planet Detroit Loading... Skip to content Home » Data center protest in Van Buren Township targets 1-gigawatt proposal A rendering of Project Cannoli, a proposed data center in Van Buren Township. Photo via Van Buren Township. Overview: - A demonstration is planned Wednesday against a proposed data center in Van Buren Township that would use as much as 3.6 million gallons of water daily. - Panattoni Development Co., which is behind the proposal, is expected to go before the township planning commission in February. - "From what I’ve observed, the general community sentiment is currently a resounding 'no,'" resident Sanjay Singh tells Planet Detroit. Don’t miss out! Join more than 7,000+ of your neighbors who already receive our informative, independent reporting on climate, health and the environment in their inbox each week. Sign me up Demonstrators plan to protest ahead of a Van Buren Township Planning Commission meeting Wednesday as the township considers plans for an 800,000-square-foot data center north of I-94, between Haggerty and Hannan roads. The public outreach on the project has been inadequate, protest organizers said in a Facebook post, adding that the 1-gigawatt project could strain local utilities. A petition to stop the data center , which has over 1,300 signatures, says the project’s energy demands will arrive as residents are already seeing higher bills and power outages. It calls attention to a similar project in Howell Township that was paused in the face of widespread public opposition. The facility will use between 2 and 3.6 million gallons of water a day, employing “open loop” cooling methods as well as possible closed loop and forced air methods, according to a frequently asked questions document on the township’s website. The data center will purchase this water from the township, which is supplied by the Great Lakes Water Authority. Representatives for project developer Panattoni Development Co. and the township previously told Planet Detroit the project could use roughly 1 gigawatt of electricity, equivalent to the energy required to power around 800,000 homes . The project will use ultra-low sulfur diesel backup generators to supply the data center with power during an outage, according to the project FAQ. The generators will use “high performance exhaust scrubbers” to remove 90% of particulates, the document says. Panattoni’s data center proposal is not on Wednesday’s planning commission meeting agenda . The developer is expected to go before the commission at the Feb. 11 meeting, Ron Akers, municipal services director for Van Buren Township, told Planet Detroit. Data center may offer ‘very little’ to the community, residents says Data center proposals in other townships have encountered opposition because of the facilities’ often enormous power and energy demands, as well as fears they could pass on costs to other electric ratepayers and imperil state climate goals . Data centers risk triggering an “off ramp” provision in Michigan’s climate law, allowing fossil fuel generation to stay online if there’s a capacity shortage. In a Dec. 23 letter in support of the project, DTE Energy Director of Policy and Regional Affairs Daniel Mahoney said Michigan’s data center tax break law ensures that “residential customers are not subject to higher costs or subsidized rates when these projects are developed.” Yet energy experts previously told Planet Detroit the tax break law , which applies to large data centers receiving tax incentives, lacks specifics on how it would protect ratepayers, and the facilities’ costs could still be passed on to other ratepayers. Van Buren Township resident Sanjay Singh, who is active in organizing against the Wayne Disposal Inc. landfill expansion , said in an email that he is still weighing the benefits and drawbacks of the data center proposal. Van Buren Township Resident Sanjay Singh at last month’s data center open house. Photo by Brian Allnutt. “From what I’ve observed, the general community sentiment is currently a resounding ‘no,'” he said. The project holds massive revenue potential, but it’s unclear how much investment the community will receive, Singh said. “If the township only receives standard water/sewer fees and basic property tax, this is a waste of land,” he said. “We would be trading thousands of potential jobs for a facility that offers very little to the local economy.” The protest will take place at 5 p.m. at Van Buren Township Hall, 46425 Tyler Road, Van Buren Township, MI 48111. 🗳️ What’s next? Tips for civic action Why it matters ⚡ Data centers like the one being considered in Van Buren Township have raised concerns in communities because of their potential impacts to water resources, energy reliability and affordability, and state climate goals. Supporters say the projects can bring significant local tax benefits and jobs. Who’s making civic decisions 🏛️ The Van Buren Township Planning Commission will be considering Panattoni’s data center proposal at an upcoming meeting. How to take civic action now 📅 Attend an upcoming Van Buren Township Planning Commission meeting. Meetings are scheduled at 5:30 p.m. on Jan. 14 and 18, and Feb. 11 and 15 at the Board of Trustees Room at Township Hall, 46425 Tyler Road, Van Buren Township, MI 48111. Planning meetings can also be attended via Zoom . 📩 Email or call the Van Buren Township supervisor or other members of the board of trustees . ✉️ Mail Van Buren Township, 46425 Tyler Road, Van Buren Township, MI 48111. 📣 Ask if public officials support the Panattoni data center proposal. What to watch for next 🗓️ The Van Buren Township Planning Commission is expected to consider Panattoni’s data center proposal. The township board would have final say over the facility’s application. Civic impact 🌍 Following data center developments and engaging with the municipalities deciding on them is one way residents can influence the impact data centers have in the state. ⭐Please let us know what action you took or if you have any additional questions. Please send a quick email to connect@planetdetroit.org. MORE DATA CENTER NEWS Lyon Township ‘may be revisiting’ data center site plan: Residents pack meeting Approval for a 1.8-million-square-foot data center depends on review of sound study and energy audit, Lyon Township says. by Brian Allnutt January 13, 2026 January 13, 2026 Allen Park officials postpone decision on 26-megawatt data center Allen Park residents say they’re concerned the data center could increase electric rates, while developers say the project will have minimal impacts. by Brian Allnutt January 9, 2026 January 9, 2026 Senate candidate Abdul El-Sayed presents ‘terms of engagement’ for data centers Democratic candidate says legislation is needed to safeguard environment and ratepayers from data center impacts. by Brian Allnutt January 8, 2026 January 8, 2026 Brian Allnutt Senior Reporter Brian Allnutt is a senior reporter and contributing editor at Planet Detroit. He covers the climate crisis, environmental justice, politics and open space. More by Brian Allnutt