A grassroots fight against data centers builds in rural Pittsylvania County - Cardinal News Dear Reader, Did you know that all of our daily news stories can come directly to you? Sign up for our free, daily newsletter and you'll get all the latest local news, weather, sports, as well as obituaries, public notices, and more! Sign up Did you miss this story? Northern Virginia and Hampton Roads have lost more jobs than any other metro area with more than 1 million people You won't miss out when you sign up for our free daily newsletter. Sign me up Skip to content Mary Knapp and Mike Ferrette have tried all kinds of new things, like raising chickens, since moving from Fairfax to Pittsylvania County. The couple wants to maintain their peaceful lifestyle without an industrial development next door, they said. Photo by Grace Mamon. Northern Virginia is home to 35% of the world’s data centers. These massive warehouse-like buildings house computers and networking equipment that store and send data — and feed our ever-growing demand for apps, artificial intelligence and cloud storage. Now they’re coming to Southside. They bring with them concerns about viewsheds, traffic, noise and energy capacity — but also the potential for transformational tax revenue and job creation. Cardinal News reporters Grace Mamon and Tad Dickens talked with local officials, residents, energy providers, environmental experts and others about what communities in our region can expect as these developments spread southward. Read all of our coverage here. Life is finally quiet for Mike Ferrette and Mary Knapp. They spend their evenings sitting together on either the front or back porch of their Pittsylvania County home. When it gets dark, they turn out all the lights and look at the stars. When the sun rises again, Knapp likes to watch it, listening to the birds wake up. Not only the wild birds — Carolina wrens, blue jays, cardinals and woodpeckers — but also the chickens in their coops in the backyard. Between March and December, she’ll tend to her organic garden where she grows “a little bit of everything” or pick the fruit from her apple and cherry trees. During the three-month reprieve from gardening, she’ll stay inside and bake. Biscottis, recently. Ferrette and Knapp are unlikely Pittsylvania County residents. They moved from Fairfax County in 2021, after spending much of their lives there. Though they had never lived in a rural area before, the couple had grown tired of the hustle and bustle, the traffic and the noise of Fairfax County. “I watched it turn into something I don’t care to participate in anymore,” Ferrette said. “Too many people, too little space.” Now, they live on about 54 acres, enough space for their families to gather. Ferette and Knapp have 11 — soon to be 12 — grandchildren between them, and they love hosting. Childhood friends, the couple grew up on the same street in Fairfax. They reunited and began dating decades later, after respective marriages, kids and divorces. They both lost parents over the last decade, so there was little keeping them in Fairfax — especially as development and industry expanded. “I would drive past data centers up there, and I would think, ‘My God, how can anybody live next to this?’” Ferrette said. He may soon find out. The county board of supervisors is considering a rezoning application for about 740 acres, where Herndon-based company Balico wants to place a 12-building data center campus with onsite power. Mike Ferrette points to his property line, past which the Balico data center project could be built if approved by the Pittsylvania County Board of Supervisors. Photo by Grace Mamon. The project would be about a quarter-mile from Ferrette’s back porch. “I feel like I brought this down here with me like gum on my shoe,” he said. “This is exactly what we were trying to get away from.” Most nearby county residents feel the same way as Ferrette and Knapp, even if they haven’t recently relocated. “We have a very good melting pot of legacy families or multigeneration, and new birds, the folks who are coming in because they want to retire in a rural area,” said Amanda Wydner, one of the residents spearheading the local opposition to the data center project. Whether lifelong residents or new to the area, almost everyone in the four communities bordering the potential project feels the same way, Wydner said. It’s more than just NIMBY, she said. Residents have legitimate environmental, aesthetic and economic concerns, as well as a general distrust in the project developer and a fear that the cultural fabric of Pittsylvania County will be altered by a large data center campus. “I feel like this is my Yellowstone,” Ferrette said. “This is what I’m fighting for.” Kathy Stump (from left), Darrell Campbell and Amanda Wydner are part of the local opposition to the Balico project. Photo by Grace Mamon. The draw of Pittsylvania County Wydner grew up on a tobacco farm in Pittsylvania, moving away from the area to attend college at Virginia Tech and jumpstart her career. She married her husband, Fred, in 1999, and they decided to move back to her family farm, which now raises cattle and show pigs and goats instead of growing tobacco. “It was always my intention to return here,” she said. “We wanted to have kids and raise them on our family farm, and we navigated our career paths to get back here. My parents worked very hard to put this together, an area to which we could return.” There’s a draw to the area, residents say, a reason people love to live there. Ferrette and Knapp were drawn to the beauty of the region, but what really blew them away was the people. In Pittsylvania, they’ve found a sense of community that they didn’t have in Northern Virginia, they said. Knapp and Ferrette got to know their neighbors quickly when they had a kitchen fire just a few weeks after moving to the area. The community was immediately supportive, gathering in the driveway to make sure everything was okay while firefighters pumped water on the house. “Word had spread within a week or so that we were the new people who had had the fire,” Ferrette said. After that, people recognized and remembered them, he said. “People are different down here. They look you in the eye when they’re talking to you and give you a sincere handshake,” Knapp said. “You can have wonderful conversations in the grocery store. Everyone’s very pleasant and people actually care.” Many of them have known each other so long, they can’t remember how they met. Wydner has been working with Kathy Stump, another resident, to rally grassroots opposition against the Balico project. They’ve gotten much closer over the past few months, but they’ve known each other for years. “My daddy was a schoolteacher for 39 years, and he started at Chatham High School teaching agriculture,” Wydner said. “Kathy’s late husband, Tommy, was one of his very first students. “I don’t even know if you knew that,” she said to Stump, looking over from across the cab of Tommy’s gray pickup truck. On that March morning, the two women were driving a loop around the parcels under consideration for the Balico project and meeting with the adjacent residents. “Are we kin?” Stump joked, earning a laugh from Wydner, who replied, “We probably are. Everybody else is.” This tight-knit — but diverse — community is one reason the opposition to the data center project has been so strong, Wydner said. “We cannot be boxed into a category,” she said. “We have Black and white, male and female, young and old, financially blessed and paycheck-to-paycheck, formally educated and not formally educated. This blend of people, we’ve basically refined ourselves to upholding the golden rule of respect for each other and trying to protect each other, and that’s what’s driven this movement.” The draw of Pittsylvania County doesn’t just attract newcomers like Knapp and Ferrette or returners like Wydner. It also makes folks want to stay. Many Pittsylvania