TECfusions acquires former manufacturing site outside Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, for 3GW data center campus - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel TECfusions acquires former manufacturing site outside Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, for 3GW data center campus Company takes over vacant buildings from aluminum firm Arconic January 09, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Data center firm TECfusions has acquired a former manufacturing site outside Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, for a planned data center. The company told TribLive last month that it had closed on property at a vacant portion of the Arconic campus in Upper Burrell, some 25 miles northeast of Pittsburgh, on December 2. Terms of the deal were not shared. TECfusions acquires vacant Arconic buildings in PA – Google Maps Update : TECFusions has officially confirmed the purchase, with the campus to be known as Keystone Connect. Metal manufacturer Arconic – spun out of Alcoa Corp in 2016 – first announced plans to sell four of its seven buildings at what was previously known as the Arconic Technology Center back in 2022 . Alcoa, which launched the campus back in 1964, is also still present on a portion of the site. About 1,200 people worked there at its peak in the late 1990s to early 2000s. According to TECfusions’ website, the 1,350-acre New Kensington campus will total 500,000 sq ft (46,451 sqm) and offer 3GW of capacity at full build-out. The official announcement says 12MW of capacity is immediately available. The copmay said the Upper Burrell facility will feature on-site power generation using natural gas, enabling dual utility and microgrid capabilities. "TECfusions Keystone Connect demonstrates our unwavering commitment to investing in the communities where we operate," said Simon Tusha, founder and CTO of TECfusions. "By revitalizing a historic site and creating thousands of high-quality jobs, we're paving the way for sustainable economic growth that benefits everyone in the region. By the time the site is complete, we expect it to be one of the largest data centers ever constructed." TECfusions spokesperson Melissa Farney told TribLive that the first phase of the project will start next year, and the final phase of construction will be complete in 2031. The first phase will reportedly offer around 336MW, according to the company. Founded in 2023 and led by former QTS CTO Simon Tusha , TECfusions specializes in designing, building, and managing data centers for AI and HPC workloads. The company also has sites in operation in Clarksville , Virginia, and Tuscon , Arizona. The company’s website also references plans for a facility in Tampa, Florida. GPU cloud firm TensorWave is a major customer for the company, having recently signed a 1GW hosting deal . Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 26 Mar 2026 Data center could be built near Detroit’s Coleman Young Airport Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 13 Jan 2026 CommScope completes sale of connectivity and cable solutions unit to Amphenol Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags TECfusions Pennsylvania Upper Burrell New Kensington Westmoreland County Pittsburgh Tecfusions Comments