Starwood looks to buy county-owned land in Fairfax, Virginia, for data center development - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Starwood looks to buy county-owned land in Fairfax, Virginia, for data center development Company looks to buy part of police training site for $4 million per acre February 23, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Real estate firm Starwood is looking to acquire part of a police training campus in Virginia’s Fairfax County in order to develop a data center. As reported by BizJournal and others , the Fairfax County board of supervisors last week provided authorization to hold a public meeting around plans to sell county-owned land to SCG Global Holdings LLC, a known affiliate of Starwood. – Fairfax County 3721 Stonecroft Boulevard in Chantilly totals 28 acres and houses the Fairfax County Police Department’s Driver Training track, Emergency Vehicle Operations Center (EVOC), Firearms Training Center, Rifle Range, and K-9 Training facilities. In use since the early 1990s, a new Criminal Justice Academy (CJA) building is also planned to be built on part of the site. That new development is expected to cost around $88 million. In the Spring of 2025, SCG Global approached the county about purchasing 41.7 acres of the site for potential development of a data center. The purchase price would be around $166.8m, equating to around $4m per acre. Details on the planned scope of the data center haven’t been shared. “The site remains an important location for police training, but the current facilities are spread out in a way that leaves portions of the property underutilized,” the county said in an announcement of the potential sale. “By moving and grouping these facilities together, the county can free up land to sell. The funds from the sale will defray costs to ensure Fairfax County has a modern police training facility.” The public hearing is scheduled for March 17, 2026, giving residents the opportunity to share comments before the board makes a decision on a sale agreement. The county noted that the sale would “fund the entire new police training campus that is modern and operationally efficient.” “The redesigned campus will replace the existing Driver Training Track, Firearms Training Center, and Rifle Range, thus reducing long-term maintenance costs and improving training conditions for recruits and in-service officers. In addition, the anticipated data center will generate new tax revenue to support the County’s General Fund,” county documents note. The Bren Pointe HOA, however, is suggesting that the county swap the targeted police site with Starwood and take the latter’s 34-acre property at Plaza 500 on Edsall Road. Instead of becoming a data center, the housing association would want the Plaza 500 site turned into a residential development with around 1,000 housing units. Private investment firm Starwood is developing a number of data centers in the US and owns a significant stake in European developer Echelon . It launched a dedicated data center unit in 2024, and significant portions of its newest fund will reportedly go to data centers. In documents for another data center project. Starwood Digital Ventures said it currently has more than $17 billion of digital infrastructure commitments and a pipeline of more than 3.5GW of data center developments globally. Starwood has several developments in the works around Virginia , and is known to be targeting sites in Delaware and Australia . Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 03 Mar 2026 Plug Power to sell site in New York to Stream Data Centers Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in Colocation & Wholesale NTT Global Data Centers Guide to India data center expansion 14 Nov 2025 Real estate services firm La Rosa Holdings raises $1.25bn for data center play 02 Jan 2026 BorderPlex launches program to source up to 1GW of renewable capacity in New Mexico Tags 3721 Stonecroft Boulevard Chantilly Fairfax County Northern Virginia SCG Global Holdings LLC Starwood Capital Starwood Digital Virginia Comments