Lambda Cloud to take capacity at Aligned’s DFW-04 Dallas-Fort Worth data center - DCD Home News The Cloud & Hybrid Channel Lambda Cloud to take capacity at Aligned’s DFW-04 Dallas-Fort Worth data center New liquid cooled data center for the neocloud May 08, 2025 By Sebastian Moss Have your say AI cloud provider Lambda plans to occupy Aligned Data Center’s latest Dallas-Fort Worth facility in Texas. The DFW-04 data center is currently under construction in Plano, Texas. State filings from last year disclosed that the $161 million facility is set to span 425,500 sq ft (39,500 sqm), with construction planned to run from October 2025 to October 2026. 10 Oct 2024 True believers: Lambda’s AI cloud dreams How a niche AI player hopes to compete with hyperscalers, and fend off newcomers “We’re proud to partner with Lambda to support the buildout of its GPU cloud infrastructure, accelerated by Nvidia, for AI deployments, which is transforming how AI developers innovate and businesses utilizing AI models operate,” Andrew Schaap, CEO of Aligned, said. “Particularly in Dallas, where demand for AI computation space has spiked interest in a growing market, combining a GPU cloud built specifically for AI workloads with an AI-ready data center designed with liquid cooling technologies capable of supporting the highest-density environments will be a game changer.” The facility will use the company's own DeltaFlow liquid cooling system, which the company says can cool densities up to 300kW per rack. “With its unrelenting focus on driving disruptive innovation in data center design, energy efficiency, and cooling, Aligned is the ideal partner to help Lambda build large, flexible space that meets the AI demands of today and tomorrow,” Lambda VP of data center infrastructure, Ken Patchett, said. “Deploying AI at scale is no easy feat, and Aligned’s ability to rapidly deliver AI-ready infrastructure, along with its passion for supporting customers with a consistently high-touch, world-class experience, is instrumental to meet the aggressive scale, quality, and speed standards Lambda sets for its public and private deployments.” Lambda, which raised $480m this February from Nvidia and others, operates out of colocation data centers in San Francisco, California, and Allen, Texas. It is known to lease space from Colovore and has installed a single GB200 NVL72 rack at ECL's hydrogen-powered data center in Mountain View, California. Last year, DCD exclusively reported that the company was subletting a Prime data center in Vernon, through an unusual deal with Supermicro. Aligned, meanwhile, currently operates campuses in Chicago , Illinois; Dallas , Texas; Phoenix , Arizona; Salt Lake City , Utah; Hillsboro, Oregon; and Northern Virginia . It has planned projects in Maryland and Ohio. Outside of the US, Aligned acquired LATAM-based OData in May 2023 and has a footprint in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and Mexico. It has also invested in Canadian firm QScale . More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 08 Apr 2026 Hyperscale operators now account for nearly half of all data center capacity worldwide Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 07 Jan 2026 Microsoft-backed quantum startup Photonic Inc. raises $131m Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Aligned Data Centers Andrew Schaap DFW-04 Dallas-Fort Worth Ken Patchett Lambda Cloud Plano Texas Comments