RadiusDC announces 24MW data center campus outside Indianapolis, Indiana - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel RadiusDC announces 24MW data center campus outside Indianapolis, Indiana Company secured planning permission last week January 12, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Regional Edge operator RadiusDC has officially announced plans for a new data center campus in Indianapolis, Indiana. The company this week announced plans to develop a new 24MW Edge colocation campus in the Indianapolis metropolitan area, starting with the first building, Indy I. – Google Maps "We are proud to announce Indy I, a project that is set to supercharge central Indiana’s digital infrastructure and support the region’s rapidly growing demand for low-latency, high-performance computing at the Edge," said Mike Krza, CEO, RadiusDC. "Indy I represents the next chapter in RadiusDC's evolution with a ground-up design purpose-built to deliver exactly what our customers need — performance, reliability, and scalability for the future." Located in Plainfield, Indy I will follow the same design and capabilities as RadiusDC’s Nashville I facility, currently under construction. The campus also includes space for a future matching facility, Indy II. The site’s power will be supplied by a new substation currently under development next to the property. News that RadiusDC was looking to develop a data center campus in Plainfield surfaced last week after the Plainfield planning commission unanimously approved the development. The company was seeking to build two buildings on a combined 31 acres, each totaling 100,835 sq ft (9,368 sqm) on the southeast corner of Smith Road and Allpoints Parkway. IPI Partners first launched RadiusDC in 2022 as an Edge firm, focusing on metro markets. IPI was acquired by Blue Owl last year. RadiusDC’s existing footprint includes data centers in Denver, Colorado, and Miami, Florida. The company acquired its Miami facility in August 2024 . It announced plans to expand its 1500 Champa facility in Denver last year. The firm broke ground on a new colocation facility in Nashville, Tennessee, in September , and it acquired the 55 Marietta carrier hotel in Atlanta, Georgia, in December . More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 22 Apr 2026 NextDC breaks ground on 4.4MW Edge data center in Geelong, Australia Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 27 Mar 2026 ABB expands partnership with VoltaGrid to support data center microgrid offering Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Hendricks County Indiana Indianapolis Indy I Indy II Plainfield RadiusDC Comments