Developer effectively withdraws application for data center in Fayetteville, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Developer effectively withdraws application for data center in Fayetteville, Georgia Crow Holdings backs down March 20, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say Real estate firm Crow Holdings Development and CHI/Acquisitions has effectively withdrawn its application to construct a data center in the city of Fayetteville, Georgia. Although plans for the data center had been rejected by the Fayetteville planning and zoning commission earlier in late January, Crow Holdings had intended to appeal the ruling at a city council meeting set to take place this week. – City of Fayetteville, Georgia But the developer seems to have given up by withdrawing its application, according to a press release issued by the City of Fayetteville on Facebook . “Crow Holdings Development and CHI/Acquisitions, LP has officially withdrawn their appeal to build a new data center north of the Fayette Pavilion shopping center along Highway 85 North,” reads the post. If a data center developer wants to build on land that is not correctly zoned for data center use, the final decision usually rests with the highest local authority, not the planning and zoning authority. But given that the land’s zoning already allowed for the construction of a data center, the Planning and Zoning Commission’s decision to reject a site plan meant that Crow’s only recourse was to appeal the rejection to the City Council. The data center would have been built on a 37.4-acre land parcel on Highway 85 North, offering 300,000 sq ft (28,000 sqm) of space at completion. It would be composed of a single two-story data center building, as well as a substation. The use of the data center for cryptomining would also have been prohibited, according to supporting documentation. Details about its capacity, however, were not disclosed. Fayetteville is located around 22 miles (35km) south of Atlanta, the state’s capital. It is also home to QTS’ 250MW Project Excalibur , as well as a potential 2 million sq ft (185,806 sqm) facility west of Veterans Parkway on an approximately 313-acre site. More in Construction & Site Selection North America data center report: Year-end 2025 09 Jan 2026 Three proposals for data centers in Columbia County, Georgia, meet stiff opposition Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 12 Nov 2025 Anthropic plans $50bn US data center spend, starting with Fluidstack sites in Texas and New York Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags CHI/Acquisitions Crow Holdings Development Fayette County Fayetteville Georgia Comments