Microsoft confirms plans for data center in Grand Rapids, Michigan - DCD Home News The Cloud & Hybrid Channel Microsoft confirms plans for data center in Grand Rapids, Michigan Purchased land in late 2024 December 15, 2025 By Georgia Butler Have your say Microsoft has confirmed it is planning to develop a data center in Grand Rapids, Michigan. As reported by MLive , Microsoft has submitted a rezoning request for land at 7174 Patterson Avenue in Gaines Township, purchased by Microsoft in October 2024 . – Google Maps The rezoning applies to a 40.5-acre parcel, part of the 316 acres owned by Microsoft, and seeks to change its designation from large-scale planned unit development to light industrial to match the southern parcel. Both will then be used for data center development. The application will be discussed at a meeting on December 18. A Microsoft spokesperson told MLive: “Project plans, including construction timelines, are yet to be finalized. We continue to work with our local partners and are committed to sharing information when we have it.” Microsoft purchased the land in question for $45.3 million, located between Patterson Avenue and 76th Street. At the time of purchasing, Michigan was not a major data center hub, despite the presence of operators including Switch US Signal and Hyperscale Data (previously Sentinum/Ault Alliance). In the year since, however, several new projects have popped up, including a $1 billion data center for Meta - though this has since been withdrawn - and is planned to be home to one of the Stargate data center campuses. Most of Michigan's data centers are centered around Detroit, but Grand Rapids, towards the west of the state, also has a small hub of facilities. More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 03 Nov 2025 Vultr launches high-performance cloud offering for public sector organizations Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 18 Mar 2026 Google confirms 1GW data center campus near Detroit, Michigan, partners with DTE Energy on 2.7GW power generation Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 7174 Patterson Avenue Gaines Township Grand Rapids Michigan Microsoft Comments