Laramie County OK's zoning to allow massive Switchgrass Industrial Park for data center, power plant - Cheyenne, WY Cap City News THANKS TO OUR COMMUNITY PARTNERS Skip to content Commissioners Troy Thompson, left, and Gunnar Malm sit during the regular Board of Commissioners meeting Oct. 15 inside the Commissioners Meeting Room inside the Laramie County Government Complex in Cheyenne. (Jared Gendron/Cap City News) CHEYENNE, Wyo. — The Laramie County Board of Commissioners unanimously approved a zone change Tuesday, enabling the establishment of the massive 1,375-acre Switchgrass Industrial Park. The approval paves the way for a multibillion-dollar investment to develop a major data center and a 1.8-gigawatt power plant in the southern part of the county. The action grants Tallgrass Integrated Logistics Solutions LLC the ability to proceed by changing the zoning designation of the property from Land Use to Planned Unit Development. The site is located west of the intersection of Chalk Bluff Road and U.S. Highway 85. Planning staff introduced the item, saying the purpose of the application is to create an area for specialized commercial and industrial businesses, specifically for data center and energy infrastructure development. Although the zoning was Agricultural/Rural, staff confirmed the action complied with both county and city comprehensive plans. During the public hearing, Scott Prestidge and Adam Marsano of Tallgrass, along with Vincent Whisker of Crusoe Energy, detailed the proposal. Crusoe Energy is planning a multibillion-dollar investment to develop a state-of-the-art data center. The project is slated to include a 1.8-gigawatt power plant to support the data center investment. The energy production will be a “behind the meter” project, ensuring no costs are borne by local ratepayers. The construction phase is estimated to run from the fourth quarter of 2025 through the fourth quarter of 2028. Crusoe officials added the facilities will use closed-loop cooling systems to minimize water usage. The data center components will be developed in Section 5 of the property, while the power plant will be located in Section 7. The proponents also spoke to the project’s economic benefits, expecting thousands of construction jobs and eventually hundreds to thousands of permanent, high-skill jobs. They said the data centers are anticipated to be long-term, “hundred-year assets” for the community. Tucker Fagan spoke in support, linking the project to national security by harnessing artificial intelligence infrastructure. Renny McKay, president of the Wyoming Business Alliance, supported the zoning change as an opportunity for Wyoming to diversify its economy and add value to its natural gas resources. However, several public comments raised concerns about the impact on the local area. Richard Juschka and Randy Fox previously raised issues regarding water usage, traffic generation and access points on U.S. Highway 85. Resident Thomas White voiced opposition during the public hearing, citing concerns over corporate disruption to the rural lifestyle, increased traffic and potential water contamination. In response to the input, commissioners clarified that the current approval was only for the zone change. Commissioner Troy Thompson said the board must balance enabling economic development with protecting neighbors through land use regulations. Commissioner Ty Zwonitzer said many issues regarding traffic, water usage and noise complaints would be addressed in the subsequent site plan phase. “I think this is very exciting for Laramie County and for the state of Wyoming and for the United States. As was mentioned numerous times, this project’s role in national security. — Laramie County and Cheyenne have played a major role in that for the last 60 years with our nuclear triad and being one component of it based here in Laramie County,” Commissioner Gunnar Malm said. “The ability for us to grow and change with the times and still be a piece of a new international fight that we find ourselves in is really exciting, that our community can be the kind of hub of that for the nation.” The final action formally adopted the zone change. Zone Change Switchgrass Industrial Park Download Related Klark Byrd Managing Editor More by Klark Byrd Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Link Copy link