Plans filed for data center site outside Columbia, South Carolina - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Plans filed for data center site outside Columbia, South Carolina Terra Nexus Ventures targets 162-acre site in Camden, Kershaw County September 11, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Proposals have been put forward for a new data center outside Columbia, South Carolina. – Google Maps First reported by the Post and Courier , Terra Nexus Ventures has filed to rezone 162 acres at 771 Park Road in Camden, Kershaw County, some 30 miles northeast of Columbia. The site, opposite the county landfill, is currently vacant. Kershaw County’s planning commission unanimously approved the proposal to rezone the site from the rural RD-1 to GD to allow for a data center at a meeting this week . The county council is set to consider it later this month. Details of the planned data center weren’t shared, but Terra Nexus hinted at a “couple” of buildings. The firm said it is working with Black River Electric Cooperative and Santee Cooper to secure power to the site. Timelines for development weren't shared. Little information about Terra Nexus Ventures is available online. Its founders, Hemal Badiani and Brandon Maxwell, are affiliated with investment firm Sage Equity. The company’s project page lists several residential and office developments, as well as a self-storage facility. Columbia and the surrounding area only host a handful of data centers, with DartPoints and Lumen being the most notable operators in the city. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 14 Apr 2026 Bell Canada breaks ground on data center in Kamloops, British Columbia Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America North America data center report 10 Apr 2026 Rehlko secures 1.25GW of natural gas engine capacity from Innio to supply data center market Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 771 Park Road Camden Kershaw County South Carolina Terra Nexus Ventures Comments