In data center zone, property sells for more than $160M | News | princewilliamtimes.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Visit Fauquier Times Website Close Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Merrifield Garden Center has operated on Wellington Road in Gainesville since 2008. Staff photo by Cher Muzyk Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save The upcoming holiday season will be the last for Merrifield Garden Center, the Gaine sville nursery known for its live Christmas trees and extensive holiday decor . It s owners sold the 38 -acre store site to a data center developer for a whopping $160 million. The sale, which posted Thursday , equates to more than $4.2 million an acre , according to records filed at the Prince William County courthouse. The sale s price is likely a record for Prince William County, where land zoned for data centers ha d recently sold for more than $3 million an acre . Located on Wellington Road, Merrifield Garden Center is part of the county’s “data center opportunity zone overlay district,” where data centers are allowed by r igh t . Merrifield Garden Center was assessed for tax purposes at $26.5 million, an amount that included both the land and the buildings. The owners bought the property for about $2 .3 million in 20 04 , according to land records. A sign posted at the garden center Thursday said it plan s to close by Dec. 31. “This space has been more than just a retail locati on. It has been a home for our plan t s , an education hub and a collaboration space,” the notice said, thanking i ts loyal cu stomers. A sign posted at Merrifield Garden Center announces that it is closing by the end of the year. Submitted Merrifield Garden Center was purchased by Black Chamber Partners, LLC, part of a private equity firm with a focus on data center development in Northern Virginia . The company is behind Village Place Technology Park and John Marshall Tech Park , both in Gainesvill e, according to the website Data Center Map . Merrifield Garden Center opened its 12,000 -square-foot store and a 37,000-square - foot greenhouse in Nov ember 2008. Since then, it has become a favorite among gardeners for its extensive collection of plants, wide variety of gifts , home décor and holiday items as well as its popular café. Holiday events included visits with Santa and cookie decorating. The family-owned chain has two other locations in Falls Church and Fairfax. The owners did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Holiday traditions aren’t the only loss concerning local officials and the store’s many fans. They also talked Thursday of losing the community's character and economic diversity. Supervisor Tom Gordy, whose Brentsville District includes the store, has been sounding the alarm about the rising value of land zoned for data centers and the pressure felt by other businesses to succumb to the i ndustry’s demand for property – and the min d-boggling su ms developers are willing to pay for it. Business es located in the data center zone are “ a t risk a s long a s the overlay continues to exist ,” Gordy said. “ This is a perfect example as to why the overlay needs to be remo ved. ” Sen. Danica Roem , whose 30 th D istrict includes the Merrifield Garden Center, expressed shock at the sale price and disappointment about the loss of a popular retail outlet . “To have a garden center , where the business model is about plants and making sure people have greenery in their yards , go south so another data center can come in and contribute to rising energy bills and massive energy consumption is beyond parody,” she said. Katherine Conklin, an instructor for Prince William County’s Science in the Park program, said Merrifield Garden Center’s large size and its location – in the middle of an industrial area – made it a popular spot for m onarch butterflies. “Every year there are loads of pollinators that come to Merrifield on their migration path … because the plants and the flowers are available to the insects,” Conklin said. “The loss of habitat is definitely a concern.” Deshundra Jefferson, chair of the county’s board of supervisors , said the store is “unique and beloved” among residents. “Merrifield is exactly the type of business that I hate to lose,” she said. “I don’t want to lose our local character – that is not something we can put a price tag on.” Reach Cher Muzyk at cmuzyk@fauquier.com Want to stay up to date on the best stories out of Prince William County? Sign up for the Prince William Times’ newly revamped daily newsletter, The JAM , online here . Want to read more stories like this? A subscription to the Prince William Times helps power quality, local news coverage. Subscribe today . You must be logged in to react. Click any reaction to login. Love 0 Funny 0 Wow 0 Sad 2 Angry 0 You must be logged in to rate. Click any rating to login. (0 Ratings) Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Cher Muzyk Author email Follow Cher Muzyk Subscriber to our Newsletter Success! An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup. Error! There was an error processing your request. Breaking News Breaking news alerts from the Prince William Times — fast, reliable, and local. Please enter a valid email address. Sign up Manage your lists Recommended for you Recommended for you × Post a comment as anonymous Emoticons [smile] [beam] [wink] [sad] [cool] [innocent] [rolleyes] [whistling] [lol] [huh] [tongue] [love] [sleeping] [yawn] [unsure] [angry] [blink] [crying] [ohmy] [scared] [sleep] [sneaky] [tongue_smile] [thumbdown] [thumbup] [censored] [happybirthday] [ban] [spam] [offtopic] [batman] [ninja] [pirate] [alien] Comment Text Cancel Post comment × Report Cancel Report Abuse × Watch this discussion. Stop watching this discussion. Watch this discussion Get an email notification whenever someone contributes to the discussion Notifications from this discussion will be disabled. Cancel Start watching Stop watching (2) comments wawright Oct 19, 2025 9:28am With the recent loss of Merrifield Garden Center to the data center juggernaut, another domino falls into the abyss. Jiffy Lube Live is next. This is the inevitable progression of industrial sprawl, when enabled by irresponsible government left unchecked. Four supervisors (Franklin, Angry, Boddye, Bailey) are primarily responsible for the ruination of Prince William County. And they aren’t done yet. Just wait until everything they have foolishly approved actually gets built. PWC is recklessly careening toward 100 million square feet of data center devastation. Good luck living amidst that. Not only will your four resident geniuses bulldoze every living thing and decorate their new lunar landscape with power towers and transmission lines, but they are determined to ensure the public has no protection from their civic vandalism. At the behest of their corporate donors, they disestablished a resident forum that had developed an effective noise ordinance and replaced that ordinance with an empty shell. Rest assured, you’ll hear their handiwork loud and clear. I saw another article about Prince William County’s declining school enrollment. Is anyone connecting the dots? Eroding quality of life is becoming apparent. So much for PWC as a “community of choice”. Supposedly all this was done to reduce your property taxes. Buy that line if you are so naïve, but the more obvious impacts have been an increase in the Fabulous Four’s donor devotion and a corresponding loss of your political sovereignty. Prepare now to throw these scoundrels out or continue to suffer their self-serving priorities. Report Add Reply PWCTaxpayer Oct 16, 2025 9:33pm Such a great community resource. So many holiday memories and purchases including our tree. It was like having a botanical garden for us and the pollinators. Thank you to Merrifield. Heartbroken 