New Orleans council pauses proposed data center in New Orleans East | WGNO.com Skip to content by: Ashley Hamilton Posted: Jan 28, 2026 / 04:37 PM CST Updated: Jan 29, 2026 / 09:36 AM CST SHARE NEW ORLEANS ( WGNO ) — The plan to build a data center, MS Solar Grid Data, in New Orleans East was delayed by the New Orleans City Council due to concerns from both residents and council members. “That is not going to fly. If you don’t want something in your own backyard, don’t come put it in the backyards of my hardworking residents,” New Orleans Councilman Jason Hughes said. The council voted to establish an interim zoning district (IZD), which pauses the construction of any data center, server farm and crypto mining operation for one year. This will allow the city planning commission to research the impacts data centers have on the surrounding community and even clarify exactly what they are. “Absent definitions, it is a realistic possibility that data centers could come online in our residential neighborhoods. So, we are using every tool at our disposal that our residents are hungry for and that our city deserves,” Hughes said. “Anybody could apply for a quote-unquote data center in whatever form and vest their rights to pursue that application. So, the IZD cuts that off immediately,” Bob Rivers, executive director of the New Orleans City Planning Commission, said. “We do not welcome being an experimental staging ground for new technology, especially when most of that land is adjacent to or in the near vicinity of neighborhoods. We have to be very careful with how we authorize these things,” Councilman JP Morrell said. Some residents said they’re at ease knowing the project is on hold for now. “A lot of people already know the concerns. Energy use, water use and strain on infrastructure to avoid paying property taxes, and these things are real issues,” New Orleans resident Sage Michael said. “When you do have the public hearing that everyone requests, that this goes on for a period of more than one year because this is something that the New Orleans East does not want,” Dawn Hebert, president of the East New Orleans Neighborhood Advisory Committee, said. With the IZD in place, the city planning commission will now conduct its research and hold public meetings with residents before bringing its findings back to the council. Morrell said the city cannot change zoning until the planning commission issues its report. If a company tries to get around the zoning ordinance, the IZD will block it. The phone number that the data center gave to residents is out of service, and Hughes also said he has not been in touch with the company. Stay up to date with the latest news, weather and sports by downloading the WGNO app on the Apple or Google Play stores and by subscribing to the WGNO newsletter . Latest Posts Delgado Community College inspires students to connect with NASA Friday Night Fastball Coach of the Week: Mount Carmel’s Curtis Matthews Fastball Round 2: Isidore Newman shuts down Northlake Christian in 6-1 victory Fastball Round 2: John Curtis rallies from 3-1 loss in game one to take the series over Evangel Christian Fastball Round 2: Rummel Raiders sweep St. Paul’s in series en route to quarterfinals Add as preferred source on Google Suggest a Correction Close Modal Suggest a Correction Your name (required) Your email (required) Report a typo or grammatical error (required) Submit Correction Δ ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Latest WGNO Video Delgado Community College inspires students to connect … Florida man arrested, accused on child sex abuse … Sewerage and Water Board work to stop Industrial … Arrest made in Jefferson Parish fatal hit-and-run … Man accused of arson attempt at Tesla dealership … Tangipahoa Parish deputies find body of fisherman … St. Tammany Parish cold case involving rape, murder … Online voter registration deadline is tomorrow for … WGNO News at 10 p.m. ‘Where Is My Husband?’: Couple gets engaged at Raye’s … The life of a Thibodaux Volunteer Fireman Une Femme Forte, an exhibit from the artist René … French school 8th grader takes New Orleans to National … Bamboo? Who knew? The New Orleans Ninth Ward Nursery … Baton Rouge police investigate Mall of Louisiana … New Orleans piano instructor accused of rape, molesting … Flock cameras assist in arrest of alleged planned … Crews respond to early morning fire at former Mariner’s … Search underway for vehicle connected to deadly Folsom … Young fans are ready for the 2026 Zurich Classic More Videos World News Iran resumes commercial flights from Tehran’s international … The Latest: Trump sending Witkoff and Kushner to … Tunisia suspends one of Africa’s oldest rights group … Another wave of public outcry tests Putin’s rule … The Latest: Trump sending Witkoff and Kushner to … Trump dispatches Witkoff and Kushner to Pakistan … US still delivering weapons to Ukraine, Zelenskyy … Two women risked everything after US raid to protest … More World News Trending Stories Ninth Ward bamboo man grows a backyard jungle Mall of La. shooting stemmed from fight between 2 … Governor blames parents and judges in wake of violence Latest News Delgado Community College inspires students to connect … Despite Iran tensions, King Charles III will follow … Friday Night Fastball Coach of the Week: Mount Carmel’s … Fastball Round 2: Isidore Newman shuts down Northlake … Philadelphia museum brings Rocky statue inside after … EU considers helping with Mideast energy infrastructure … View All News Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now WGNO Daily Headlines SIGN UP NOW