Meta named as company behind 945-acre data center development in Cheyenne, Wyoming - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Meta named as company behind 945-acre data center development in Cheyenne, Wyoming Could be up and running in three years May 10, 2024 By Matthew Gooding Have your say Meta has been named as the company behind a large data center being developed in the US state of Wyoming. Facebook’s parent company is building on a 945-acre site south of Wyoming state capital Cheyenne, according to a report in Cowboy State Daily. The site of the planned Meta data center in Cheyenne – Google Maps A data center development on the site, dubbed ‘Project Cosmo’, was approved by Cheyenne City Council last November , but the company behind the project was not named at the time. The business behind the application, a shell company called Goat Systems, LLC said it was looking to develop around 800,000 sq ft (74,320 sqm) on the land. The report in Cowboy State Daily quotes several unnamed officials familiar with the plans, who spoke anonymously having signed non-disclosure agreements. Construction is expected to take three years, the officials said, and the project could end up being the biggest tech investment in Wyoming history. Technical specifications of the data center have not been revealed. Meta was not immediately available for comment when approached by the publication, but Cheyenne Mayor Patrick Collins said the company behind the data center project would be officially revealed at an event in July. The development is set to be located in the High Plains Business Park, which is owned by the Cheyenne-Laramie County Corporation for Economic Development (LEADS). LEADS owns several other business parks in the area, including the 500-acre Bison Business Park where Microsoft opened a data center campus in 2021. Wyoming offers tax breaks for data center operators, which is said to have been a deciding factor in Meta pursuing the Cheyenne project. Plans to repeal the incentives were voted down by state politicians in 2021. Meta is investing heavily in its data centers, and expects to spend $35-$40bn on infrastructure projects this year . Recent announcements from the company have included an $800 million data center planned for Montgomery, Alabama , which will go live in 2026. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction Pre-emptive data center moratoria: The hot new trend of local government Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 09 Dec 2025 Colliers: Rapid data center construction is fueling pressure on power, water, and zoning availability Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Meta Laramie County Project Cosmo Goat Systems High Plains Business Park Wyoming Cheyenne Comments