Campbell County faces data center proposals as residents call for stricter regulations Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 61 ° Sat 83 ° Sun 64 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY Campbell County faces data center proposals as residents call for stricter regulations by Rachel Branning Tue, November 11, 2025 at 3:55 PM Updated Tue, November 11, 2025 at 6:33 PM 3 VIEW ALL PHOTOS The Campbell County Board of Supervisors is considering a proposal that could allow three data centers to come to the Concord district. (Credit: Christian Irizarry/WSET) Comment on this story 7 Comment Share story Share topics: Campbell County Data centers Rezoning Regulations Heavy industrial Special use permit Community opposition Mesh Capital CAMPBELL COUNTY, Va. (WSET) — The Commonwealth is home to the most data centers in the country, and more may be coming to our area, but not everyone is on board with the cloud storage facilities planting themselves in central Virginia. In October, the Campbell County Board of Supervisors denied a rezoning request by Mesh Capital LLC, which would have eliminated a proffer on a section of land on Cabin Field Rd. in Concord, allowing three data centers to be built. A lot of folks thought that we defeated data centers. That was really not the case," Ashby Smith, who lives beside the property, said. Now, the developers have submitted a slightly scaled-down proposal, which, in documents obtained by ABC13, was considered to be "in general compliance" with the proffered site plan. The new plan includes "key infrastructure components for the future development of this property," which include a 50' width roadway with entrance on Rt. 460 and Cabin Field Rd., a maximum of 15 individual parcels, and at least 14.4% of the property remaining as common green space. Their new proposal would not require a zoning change, and based on the current Campbell County code, they could build the centers without approval because all heavy industrial-zoned properties in the county have by-right use and are permitted. "It's not something that's like, 'Oh, this could happen.' It really can happen," Smith said, regarding the data centers. In 2024, the board voted, ruling that data centers would not require a special use permit. As it currently reads, they can come in by-right and build a data center on an industrial heavy zoned property," Matt Cline, Concord supervisor, said. "The reason the board made that move was to better market some properties that we had, that were heavy industrial sites, that would be good fits for data centers." However, Cline said not every site is a good fit, so they're rethinking their decision. RELATED: Campbell County supervisors urged to reject data center proposal amid concerns "We'll be voting on taking that back to a special use permit process in our December 2nd meeting," he said. Sandy Glass, who has lived in Campbell County her entire life, said data centers have no home there. I feel like our county's really been under attack lately and we'd like some regulation over that so we can enjoy the county that we know and love," she said. "A data center can come in and build by-right with no oversight over the electricity usage, the water resources, the noise, any kind of restrictions like that. We'd really like to see that come out of the by-right process and judge these projects on their merits." Smith said he'd like to see the board require a permit before any data center breaks ground. "It's not just that it's in my backyard, it could literally be in your backyard, it could be in that favorite patch of woods that you drive by all the time and see... You just don't know," he said. ABC13 has reached out to Mesh Capital LLC multiple times to discuss their proposal, but we haven't heard back. The board is set to meet again on Dec. 2, when they're expected to vote on the by-right usage when it comes to heavy industrial properties. Smith and Glass hope that all concerned citizens will attend the meeting to make their voices heard. To eliminate the by-right usage, it puts the power back in the citizen's hands to be able to really decide what goes in their community," Smith said. Comment with Bubbles READ THE COMMENTS (7) "When the board of supervisors put data centers into heavy industrial use by-right, what they did essentially was take away their own power to judge each project on its merits. They also silenced the public because, as it stands right now, the public is not able to come out and speak against any of these projects. Putting it back under the special use permit would put the voice back into the area residents and also give the board the authority to say no to projects that just don't advantageous for the county," Glass added. Trending Judge allows Lynchburg man accused of murdering his wife in 2023 to represent himself The Lynchburg man accused of murdering his estranged wife in the summer of 2023 will be allowed to defend his case moving forward. 12 guns, 2 pounds of marijuana seized during search of Madison Heights home A number of items were seized from a home in Madison Heights as part of a narcotics operation, according to the Amherst County Sheriff's Office. AG Jay Jones appeals ruling that blocked certification of Virginia redistricting votes The Virginia Supreme Court will hear arguments Monday over a legal challenge tied to redistricting in Virginia. Lynchburg firefighters rescue nine people trapped in an elevator The Lynchburg Fire Department said they rescued nine people who were trapped in an elevator late Thursday night. Makeover in progress: Trump shares photos of Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool President Donald Trump shared new photos of renovation work that's being done at the Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool in Washington. NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 4 Fire consumes motorhome on side of the interstate in Carroll County 6 NFL brothers launch afterschool arts program for Danville youth, debuting 'Motown' 3 Lynchburg Police Department promotes 18 during City Hall ceremony 3 AG Jay Jones appeals ruling that blocked certification of Virginia redistricting votes