Amazon purchases 1,300 acres in Morrow County, Oregon - DCD Home News The Cloud & Hybrid Channel Amazon purchases 1,300 acres in Morrow County, Oregon Could be for 1GW data center project March 31, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say Amazon Web Services (AWS) has acquired 1,300 acres of land near Boardman in Morrow County, Oregon, potentially for a data center project. As reported by The Oregonian , planning documents that were submitted to Morrow County last year suggest the project could offer 1GW of capacity, with 20 buildings spread across four million sq ft (371,610 sqm) of floorspace. – Google Maps Despite this, AWS has yet to confirm the project, telling GeekWire via email that it had “recently purchased land in Boardman, Oregon,” but “development plans are not final, and Amazon is performing our normal due diligence process as we develop new locations based on customer demand.” AWS has a notable data center presence already in Oregon, including operating facilities in Morrow and Umatilla counties. The company began building in Morrow County around 2011 , and expanded in Hermiston, in nearby Umatilla County, from around 2017 . Its US West Oregon cloud region operates from these facilities. In February 2025 , the company was reportedly looking to buy around 400 acres in Arlington - located around 27 miles west of Boardman - having previously acquired 376 acres in the area in 2024. The cloud firm is also suspected of being the company behind a $4.8bn 16-building data center campus under development in Walla Walla, Washington, which lies on the border with Oregon. While the company is clearly interested in further developments in Oregon, in November 2025 , it lodged a complaint against PacifiCorp, a utility based in Portland, claiming that the utility was failing to meet AWS’ power needs. The complaint said that one AWS campus had "insufficient power," a second had no power at all, and PacifiCorp “has refused to even complete its own standard contracting process for the third and fourth data center campuses.” In January 2026, the cloud giant acquired a shovel-ready solar-plus-storage facility in Morrow County, Oregon. Dubbed the Sunstone project , it aims to bring 1.2GW of solar and 1.2GW of battery energy storage capacity to the grid, potentially enabling AWS to expand its operations in the region. More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 19 Nov 2025 AWS launches instances with Nvidia Blackwell Ultra GPUs Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 16 Dec 2025 Amazon shareholders call for report on AWS use in Gaza and by US ICE Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags AWS Amazon Amazon Web Services Boardman Morrow County Oregon Comments