$165 billion data center planned for El Paso area - El Paso Matters Skip to content A map shows where the $165 billion data center campus — dubbed "Project Jupiter" would be located in Santa Teresa, New Mexico. (Doña Ana County Board of Commissioners) Share using Native tools Share Copied to clipboard Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Nextdoor (Opens in new window) Nextdoor Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit After a scene that could have been pulled out of the 2025 film “Eddington,” the Doña Ana Board of County Commissioners this week advanced a deal with an Austin-based firm that says it plans to invest an almost-inconceivable sum – $165 billion – to build an infrastructure campus that will house data centers in Santa Teresa, New Mexico. Much like the movie’s mayor hyped a data center in the fictional town of Eddington, New Mexico, Doña Ana commissioners at a Tuesday meeting touted the investment by BorderPlex Digital Assets that the company says will result in 750 permanent jobs locally and $300 million in direct payments to the county’s coffers. The commission voted 4-1 Tuesday to advance the deal, and commissioners will take a final vote during a public hearing Sept. 19. District 4 Commissioner Susanna Chaparro voted against the measure. “This sounds to be a wonderful thing for Doña Ana County, but there’s a right way and a wrong way to do this,” Chaparro said. “I would like more community engagement. … We, as a community, need to understand what will be happening in our county.” Organizers protest a proposed $165 billion data center campus that BorderPlex Digital Assets wants to build in Santa Teresa, New Mexico. (Diego Mendoza-Moyers / El Paso Matters) The infrastructure campus, dubbed Project Jupiter, is planned to be just north of the port of entry in Santa Teresa, an unincorporated area near West El Paso. To put into perspective how gargantuan a proposed $165 billion investment is, all of the property in El Paso County is collectively valued at about $95 billion, according to the El Paso Central Appraisal District. A $165 billion investment would be two-thirds of the inflation-adjusted spending by the United States on the Apollo project in the 1960s and 1970s that put men on the moon. Lanham Napier, chairman and co-founder of BorderPlex Digital Assets, said the company will pay for its own electricity generation and storage resources to power the campus, which will feature four data center buildings. Hyperscale data centers house thousands of computer servers and hardware that run constantly to process and store huge amounts of data for big tech companies. Napier said the campus’ water usage – one of the major questions surrounding the facility – will be “minimal” because it features a system that recycles water. “We are now at a point in our technology development where we can develop these resources in a very sustainable, innovative way,” Napier told the board of commissioners. “We look at water resources that’s required, it’s basically domestic water uses for the employees. So, 750 employees, that’s running dishwashers, running sinks, using facilities, using the toilet, that kind of stuff,” said Napier, a former chief executive of Rackspace, a San Antonio-based technology company. “So, the technology is advanced to where data centers run closed-loop systems. Water consumption is minimal.” Only a handful of global technology companies – including Meta, Alphabet, OpenAI, Oracle and Microsoft – have the financial capacity to operate such a sprawling data center campus. The developers haven’t identified the eventual tenants of the data centers. If commissioners approve the deal, Doña Ana County would issue so-called industrial revenue bonds, which the company would repay. BorderPlex Digital would transfer the land and equipment to the county so that Doña Ana County owns the project. Then, the county would lease it back to the company for a 30-year period. That way, BorderPlex Digital could avoid paying property taxes. In exchange, the company said it would provide about $300 million in “payments in lieu of taxes” to the county over the term of the deal. After 30 years, the company’s shareholders would take ownership – not the county. The $165 billion “is not a debt of the county,” said Chris Muirhead, an attorney who serves as bond counsel for Doña Ana County. “It is not money that the county is providing to the company. It is not an obligation that the county will ever be asked to repay, nor is the county committing any of its revenues ever to repay it,” he said. “That number ties to what the company anticipates to be the investment – the capital investment – into the project.” The vote Tuesday came after well over a dozen people spoke against the project and urged the commissioners to vote against the deal, although several people supported the project. “This is going to be transformative for this community,” District 3 Commissioner Shannon Reynolds said. “One of the things that we insist on as part of this discussion is that … this data center is not going to have a negative impact on the water situation down in Santa Teresa and in Sunland Park. If it does, then, I promise you, we will be on top of it.” Timeline, CRRUA questions linger Part of the pushback Tuesday stemmed from the seemingly sudden nature of the deal with BorderPlex Digital. New Mexico Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham announced the deal in February, but few details had emerged until the meeting Tuesday – and now the final vote is 23 days away. “This is a project that’s going through very, very quickly,” Chaparro said. “I don’t think that I have had all of my questions answered to this point. And I think this community deserves the answers to the questions they may have.” Others questioned whether the massive campus would truly employ a “closed-loop” system that uses little of the region’s groundwater. There’s also concerns about oversight by county commissioners. Residents in southern Doña Ana County over the last two years have experienced a water crisis after mismanagement and numerous failures by the utility that covers Santa Teresa and Sunland Park – the Camino Real Regional Utility Authority – led to unsafe levels of arsenic entering household drinking water. And caustic soda at a malfunctioning treatment plant also poured into the area’s water supply in late 2023, and customers experienced slimy, high-pH water at their homes . Tests conducted by CRRUA under the utility’s new leadership have shown improved water quality with lower levels of arsenic in recent months. Still, members of the current county board of commissioners sat on CRRUA’s governing board during the period of cascading failures at the utility. Chaparro was chair of the utility’s board. WATER, POWER RESOURCES A large part of all U.S.-grown pecans come from the El Paso region. Could drought, rising heat change that? by Diego Mendoza-Moyers August 10, 2025 August 11, 2025 As drought, climate change pressure El Paso water supply, farmers innovate to sustain orchards in one of nation’s biggest pecan-growing hubs by Diego Mendoza-Moyers August 11, 2025 August 11, 2025 Fight over El Paso Electric’s proposed rate increase plows on by Diego Mendoza-Moyers June 30, 2025 June 30, 2025 Earlier this year, Sunland Park announced it would develop its own municipal water utility while Doña Ana County officials said they would take over CRRUA’s assets outside of Sunland Park and create a new water provider for the area. “It’s not a proven technology,” Daisy Maldonado, director of the advocacy group Empowerment Congress of Doña Ana County, said of the data centers’ water re-use system. “There’s just too much at risk in terms of the water that’s available for the people in” Sunland Park. She said the company needs to provide more details of the closed-loop system technology to prove it works and doesn’t drain water resources from the area. And she expressed distrust of the county board of c