Zenith obtains planning approval for 1.24GW data center project in Roswell, New Mexico - DCD Home News The Energy & Sustainability Channel Zenith obtains planning approval for 1.24GW data center project in Roswell, New Mexico 8,500 acre site will integrate advanced power and storage solutions August 26, 2025 By Zachary Skidmore Have your say US energy infrastructure developer Zenith Volts has obtained approval for a data center project in Roswell, New Mexico. – Getty Images The company was granted approval from the Chaves County Commission for a 300-acre data center project designed to support 1.24GW or more of power capacity. The plot has expandable land resources and will focus on delivering reliable infrastructure for AI, cloud computing, and high-performance workloads. The entire site will span 8,500 acres and integrate advanced power solutions, including on-site solar, natural gas generators for backup, modular solar-thermal hybrid systems, a 250-acre battery energy storage system, and geothermal cooling. The exact capacity of each power solution has not been disclosed. The company has said that the project will be fully operational by November 2027. It is currently in the process of engaging with technology companies, cloud service providers, and AI innovators to join as anchor partners. While not explicitly stated, it seems like the project will be powered off-grid via a diversified set of power and storage solutions. Headquartered in Cheyenne, Wyoming, Zenith styles itself as a power solutions and data center development company. The Rosewell announcement is its first in the data center sector, with the company only being founded earlier this year. It is unclear who owns Zenith. Debt provider Equitas Global Financial Guarantee Ltd is listed as providing funding to the company. The project follows a trend of new companies seeking to develop off-grid solutions for the data center sector. Last week , Pacifico Energy revealed plans for an 8,000-acre+, 5GW off-grid power project purpose-built to support hyperscale data center operators and artificial intelligence applications. More in Rack Level The Cooling Supplement 29 Oct 2025 Fermi America inks reactor supply and design deals for up to 11GW data center campus in Amarillo, Texas Episode Rethinking fire protection for high-density facilities More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 11 Feb 2026 Bell files to develop data center campus in Saskatchewan, Canada Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Chaves County Commission New Mexico Rosewell Zenith Volts Comments