2.1 million sq ft technology campus proposed in southern Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 2.1 million sq ft technology campus proposed in southern Georgia Project Splice would total seven buildings and a substation March 07, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A large technology campus is being proposed in south-central Georgia. Red Wolf DCD Properties LLC this week filed a Development of Regional Impact application with the Georgia Department of State Affairs for a technology campus known as Project Splice. Site of the proposed Project Splice campus – Google Maps Located outside Cordele in Crisp County, the project is described as a “technology campus with multiple buildings, a substation, and other utility improvements to serve the campus.” It would consist of seven buildings at 300,000 square feet (27,870 sqm) each, for a total of 2.1 million square feet (195,096 sqm). Further details haven’t been shared. Phase I would be set to complete in 2029: Phase II in 2031; and Phase III in 2033. The project is valued at $6bn, according to the filing. Though the filing doesn’t include an address, given coordinates suggest the site will be on land along the west side of Old Nesbit Road, on the east side of Coredele. Cordele – a city that bills itself as “the watermelon capital of the world“ – is located some 140 miles south of Georgia’s major data center hub, Atlanta. Little information is available about Red Wolf. That affiliate was previously involved in a filing for a 1.25 million sq ft (116,129 sqm) data center project proposal south of Atlanta in Hampton. New York-based real estate consulting firm Swearingen was involved in that project. Company founder Christy Swearingen has previously held roles at Amazon, Microsoft, EdgeConneX, and Oracle. Atlanta is a major data center hub, with many developments clustered around Fulton and Douglas Counties to the west of Atlanta. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection North America data center report: Year-end 2025 13 Apr 2026 20MW data center proposed at former Eon office site in Nottinghamshire, UK Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 20 Apr 2026 CoreWeave and Google raise $6.7bn in junk bond offering - report Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Cordele Crisp County Georgia Project Splice Red Wolf DCD Properties,LLC Comments