Skybox Datacenters plans $249M expansion near Austin MySA Logo Hearst Newspapers Logo Skip to main content Business Williamson County adds $249M Skybox 'Power Campus' as part of tech boom The entire project is expected to bring billions to the county. By Cristela Jones , Austin Trending Reporter April 19, 2024 Server racks in a computer data center with interface, switch and attached communications cables in a cloud computing and IT concept. Yulia-Images/Getty Images Another huge investment and tech project is coming to the suburbs of small cities just outside of Texas' capital city. What's being called " Austin’s Next Tech Megaproject" is now two steps closer to potentially becoming a reality. Skybox Datacenters LLC has submitted two new state filings this week for a $163 million data center in Hutto and another nearly $86.4 million facility in Pflugerville, according to the Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation (TDLR). Both constructions are set to bring billions of dollars of capital investment to Williamson County , just north of Austin, which has been named one of the fastest growing counties in the U.S. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Last November, Skybox CEO Rob Morris said its Central Texas campus will be the largest in his company's portfolio, which stretches across six markets, according to the Skybox website. Morris told the Austin Business Journal in April 2023 that he had been interested in expanding into the Austin area to complete the "Texas triangle," along with sites in Houston and Dallas. More For You Growing TX college town draws $13M home improvemen store A $13 million Home Depot is planned near I-35, adding to a surge of major retail development. Nostalgic North Star Mall store undergoes $520K facelift Here's what to expect when work gets underway. All the Buc-ee's goodies $1M could buy at the TX super chain That's a lot of Beaver Nuggets. H-E-B groceries may not be the cheapest in Texas, report finds H-E-B reigns king in Texas — but how much bang for your buck does it offer compared to competitors? 100-plus data centers now span the Hill Country. Here's where Tech giants are pouring billions into the Texas Hill Country and reshaping a region locals have long fought to protect. Companies typically use data centers as a physical location to store servers and information for businesses and some of the world's biggest cloud computing giants. Dallas-based Skybox and San Francisco-based Prologis Inc. received unanimous approval for a development agreement from Hutto City Council in May to build what they call "PowerCampus Austin," the Austin Business Journal reported. The mammoth-sized 600-megawatt campus located on about 159 acres of land will be a data center with six buildings totaling around 3.9 million square-feet, according to ABJ. Advertisement Article continues below this ad MySA Logo Want more MySA? Make us a Preferred Source on Google to see more of us when you search. Add Preferred Source The latest TDLR filing shows the scope of work for the first part of that project will include a tenant fit out to an existing 235,730-square-foot data center building and the construction of a tenant office space and the center's support and computer data center. Skybox and Prolongis already own a $548 million data center in Pflugerville called "Skybox Austin 1." However, the company's latest filing for "Skybox Austin 2" will be a new 126,150-square-foot building that is also being affected by fit out improvements with the scope of work including a a hot aisle containment, electrical busway, cable tray, and a second-story office to support the data center space. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The land in Hutto is roughly 10 times larger than what Skybox owns in Pflugerville, which Williamson County Judge Bill Gravell told ABJ that the project could mean $4 to $5 billion in capital investment for the county. He also said it fits into the trend of increased technology and industrial development in the area with large projects like Samsung's $17 billion chip factory set to open this summer in Taylor. Construction on Skybox's Hutto 1 facility is expected to begin June 1 and be completed by December of this year. Skybox's Austin 2 in Pflugerville is estimated to begin construction in October and finish by June 2025. April 19, 2024 Cristela Jones Austin Trending Reporter Cristela is a San Antonio-born Austinite covering all things trending and cultura in the state’s capital city. She holds an M.A. in journalism from the University of Texas at Austin and a B.S. in electronic media from Texas State University. Her work has appeared in Bloomberg News, NPR's Next Generation Radio, KUT y más. Most Popular 1 . Wemby unavailable for Game 3, still recovering from concussion 2 . Large hail, severe storms could hit San Antonio this weekend 3 . Rare aquifer tour opens at Texas' largest cave near San Antonio 4 . First-of-its-kind thrift store opens in San Antonio. What to know 5 . Major $4.5M upgrade coming to luxury Texas Hill Country resort Best Of Readers' Choice YourSA 2026 winners are here! Did your faves win? Explore the best in San Antonio for dining, beauty, entertainment and more. Readers' Choice The best tax services in San Antonio File smarter, not harder, with help from the people who actually read the fine print. Readers' Choice These private schools in San Antonio are kid-tested, parent-approved According to locals, these are the schools worth touring. Readers' Choice The best foundation repair companies in San Antonio Your dream home deserves a solid foundation. Readers' Choice The best med spas in San Antonio To look your best, you’ve got to work with the best. Puzzles The classic newspaper crossword gets a makeover Our new award-winning games from Puzzmo are a free, modern twist on the classic newspaper crossword... Puzzles Cross|word An approachable redesign to a classic, featuring exclusive weekday puzzles. Puzzles Flipart A quick daily flip. Finally someone cracked the code on digital jigsaw puzzles. Puzzles SpellTower Word search but with strategy. Clearing the board feels really good. Puzzles Really Bad Chess A random board...sure. Three queens and seven knights… why not? Enjoy this modern take on the... Puzzles Typeshift Anagrams with a literal twist. Getting the last word is always possible, rarely easy. Shopping Shopping This AeroPress Go coffee maker is 25% off for Cyber Monday Shopping This new YETI bottle is on sale for Cyber Monday: Get 30% off Shopping Save up to 20% on select Weber grills with this limited-time Cyber Monday sale Editor's Pick How to challenge Bexar County property taxes Houston and Texas Former TX reporter opens up about parents' killings Travel George Strait road trip: What to do on the way to Lubbock Shopping The best camping gear storage solutions Let's Play