TigerDC announces $3B data center in Spartanburg County Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Classifieds Legal Notices E-Paper Obituaries Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email [+] Add Post and Courier News on Google New York-based TigerDC announced Jan. 26 it has plans to build a high-performance computing data center in the Tyger River Industrial Park – North, code-named Project Spero. File/Business Wire Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save SPARTANBURG — New York-based TigerDC plans to build a high-performance computing data center in the Tyger River Industrial Park–North, code-named Project Spero. The project has faced local pushback, with some residents decrying potential environmental and financial impact as rumors of the investment began spreading in late 2025. Project Spero is a privately financed development, which the company argues will deliver “substantial economic value while operating within an existing industrial corridor under strict local, state, and federal oversight.” The project will generate millions in annual county property tax revenue, according to the company’s press release, which it claims will support schools, public safety and essential services without adding residential growth pressures or strain on county infrastructure. “Spartanburg has become a second home for me,” said Jerry Tang, CEO of TigerDC. “This is a community that values responsible growth, and TigerDC has already shown we can be a dependable long-term partner. Project Spero builds on that track record and reflects our commitment to continued investment alongside trusted local partners.” TigerDC has operated a bitcoin mining facility in Spartanburg County since 2022. It has partnerships with local companies like Pacolet Milliken and Lockhart Power. The first phase of Project Spero will include 50 full-time positions focused on high-skilled technical and operational roles. These positions will offer competitive compensation, with wages well above recent regional per-capita income levels, reflecting the specialized expertise required to operate the facility. The project also will include significant construction activity and indirect economic benefits through contractors, suppliers and service providers during the development phase. Despite the economic development pitch, some county residents have argued such a project would strain infrastructure and negatively affect the environment. They said councilmembers were not transparent about the deal. A petition called “Stop Data Centers Coming to Upstate, SC,” has garnered more than 1,000 signatures, calling for Spartanburg County Council, Cherokee County Council and the state to pass a moratorium on data centers until regulations are passed — and for elected officials to hold a public forum on community concerns. Similar fights are popping up across the state. In Colleton County, two property owners are suing the county government over a new policy that allows for the swift approval of data centers in areas zoned “rural.” That policy was adopted shortly before plans were revealed to construct an 859-acre data center campus just south of Walterboro. That proposal has sparked swift and strong opposition from the community. TigerDC downplayed environmental concerns in its announcement, saying the Spartanburg facility incorporates modern efficiency standards for utilities, advanced emissions controls and extensive noise mitigation measures. Cornell researchers found that, by 2030, the current rate of AI growth nationwide would put 24 million to 44 million metric tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere annually — the equivalent of adding 5 million to 10 million cars to U.S. roadways. And there are growing reports of public health risks and noise pollution near data centers, like some in Louisiana and Texas . All operations will comply with local, state and federal noise, air quality and emissions regulations, with ongoing oversight by Spartanburg County, the S.C. Department of Environmental Services, the S.C. Public Service Commission, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, they said. “Data center design has evolved significantly over the past decade,” Tang said. “Project Spero reflects those advances by addressing the concerns associated with older facilities and applying today’s best practices in efficiency, safety, and environmental protection.” Project Spero will be served by existing industrial utility infrastructure, separate from residential systems. Lockhart Power says Project Spero will not cause an increase in Lockhart’s customer rates. The company plans to generate a portion of its power on-site, partially using natural gas to reduce reliance on the electric grid and make power more resilient. Water usage at the facility will be comparable to a “light commercial operation,” like a large home improvement store, the company added. The facility design relies on air-cooled and closed-loop cooling systems, which means more water infrastructure won’t be needed, and existing customers will experience no disruptions. Large data centers can consume up to 5 million gallons of water per day, which is equivalent to the water use of a town the size of Greer, according to a study from the Environmental and Energy Study Institute. Pacolet Milliken, the industrial landowner, also emphasized the project’s limited environmental footprint and promoted promised sustainability practices. “This project is being developed in an established industrial area with ample land and infrastructure to support both its initial and long-term needs, while prioritizing environmental protection and responsible land stewardship,” the company said in the press release. “Unlike large-scale land conversions seen elsewhere, this site was designed to minimize impact, while supporting sustainable economic development,” they added. The facility will feature dark-sky compliant lighting, LEED-aligned design principles and comprehensive safety and security systems, including 24/7 on-site security and coordination protocols with local emergency services. Construction is expected to begin in 2026, with Phase I operations anticipated in 2027. Macon Atkinson is a politics and accountability reporter in Upstate South Carolina. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Tags Tigerdc Project Spero Spartanburg County Data Center Economic Impact Macon Atkinson Politics Reporter Macon Atkinson is a politics and accountability reporter in Upstate South Carolina. Author twitter Author email , Post and Courier, an Evening Post Publishing Newspaper Group. All rights reserved. | Terms of Sale | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy