391-acre data center campus proposed in Morgan County, Indiana - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 391-acre data center campus proposed in Morgan County, Indiana Planning commission will hear request for unnamed developer February 04, 2025 By Niva Yadav Have your say A 391-acre data center campus could be coming to a site outside Indianapolis, Indiana. As reported by Inside Indiana Business , The Morgan County Plan Commission is set to reconsider a zoning request for the proposed facility on February 10. – Google Maps The request to rezone the site as a planned unit development was filed by the Morgan County Economic Development Corporation (Morgan County EDC), acting on behalf of the unnamed developer and end user. The site in question is located in the Morgan Township, east of Monrovia, between Keller Hill Road, North Antioch Road, Indiana 42, and West Union Church Road. According to the filings, the rezoning request shows five proposed buildings for the site; four large buildings and one smaller building east of the electrical transmission line. Currently, the site comprises 18 different land parcels owned by ten different entities. The unnamed developer has secured purchase options with these owners if the project moves forward, said Morgan County EDC executive director Mike Dellinger. Dellinger added: “It’s obviously a project of great economic significance, and it’s in a location that’s well suited for it. And so we’re hoping that Morgan County, the public, and its elected officials and appointed officials can see this benefit just as we do.” A separate public information meeting has been scheduled for February 4. Indiana has seen several data center announcements in recent years. Google, Meta, Microsoft, and AWS have all announced plans for hyperscale projects in the state. These projects combined represent nearly $25 billion in potential investment. Last January, Google purchased 900 acres in southeast Fort Wayne for data center development, and Meta’s 1500-acre development was announced late last year. More in Construction & Site Selection Hong Kong: Asia’s connectivity hub 13 Mar 2026 Nscale in talks to acquire up to 8GW Monarch Compute Campus in West Virginia - report Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in North America North America data center report 19 Dec 2025 Ares acquires land and data centers in Virginia, expands Ada Infrastructure into US Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Indianapolis Morgan County Economic Development Corporation Morgan County Mike Dellinger North Antioch Road Keller Hill Road Indiana Morgan County Plan Commission Comments