Proposed $12 billion data center gets unfavorable recommendation from St. Joe County committee Skip to content Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google SOUTH BEND, Ind. (WNDU) - A proposed data center near New Carlisle received more unfavorable recommendation from some St. Joseph County officials on Tuesday night. The St. Joseph County Council’s Land Use Planning Committee voted to make an unfavorable recommendation to the full council on the $12 billion data center, which would be constructed off Chicago Trail. The data center has already received a unanimous unfavorable recommendation from the Area Plan Commission and opposition from the New Carlisle Town Council . Though tonight’s committee meeting did not allow open public comment, numerous residents showed up with “No Data Center” signs to show their disapproval of constructing yet another data center in the area. With construction now underway at the Amazon Data Center in New Carlisle, residents expressed concerns that another data center would place undue stress on the town’s limited resources. “It’s another huge data center. We already have one going up on (State Road 2), and we don’t want another big one on (U.S. 20). That’s my big thing,” said Shep Lovick, a New Carlisle resident. “And of course, the resources: the water and electricity. I’m not convinced that this would not be detrimental to my property in New Carlisle.” A map of the proposed data center site just north of New Carlisle. (WNDU) Brandon Dickinson, the legal representative for the data center developer, sought to address the public’s concerns with his presentation tonight. He says the data center will use a closed loop liquid cooling system to reduce water consumption. This means all water will be continuously recycled, eliminating the need for a constant freshwater supply. He also says data center developers value St. Joseph County because it has access to two electrical grids, meaning there will be sufficient energy to power the data center without raising utility rates. “One of the many reasons why western St. Joseph County is so popular for these projects is that it’s there,” Dickinson said. “The energy is there; the infrastructure is there. I’ve made the analogy it’s like plugging into an outlet. When you plug into the outlet, it lights up, it’s there. For the last 50 years, the utility company has been placing infrastructure so that when someone does want to plug into it, it’s there. That’s why the utility is ready and prepared to serve this project.” Despite these assurances, the council decided to listen to the complaints made by their constituents. “I think we’ve heard more loudly than most other issues we’ve had that our community is saying, ‘Hold up, wait up a while. Let us catch up right now,’” said St. Joseph County Councilwoman Amy Drake. “And so, that’s why I’m saying no.” In a 3-2 vote, the council gave the proposition an unfavorable recommendation. Despite this victory, New Carlisle residents remain determined to ensure the data center never gets built. “We want more say in what happens in our area, and this is how we’re doing it,” Lovick said. “We’re doing all we can.” This meeting was only a preliminary committee hearing. Now that the proposal has been advanced unfavorably to the full council, the final vote will be held on Nov. 11. Stay up to date on local news with WNDU on-air and online. Be sure to download the 16 News Now App and follow our YouTube page as we continue to bring you the latest coverage on this developing story. Copyright 2025 WNDU. All rights reserved. Most Read One hospitalized after crash on U.S. 20 Bypass Notre Dame unveils 2026 edition of ‘The Shirt’ Man hospitalized after being thrown from motorcycle in Elkhart County Nonverbal student suffers carpet burn after being dragged by school worker, authorities say Two arrested in multi-agency human and sex trafficking operation in Roseland New Indiana law to use levelized billing to prevent electric bill increases during extreme cold, heat Illinois passes Chicago Bears stadium bill, but team says it’s not enough Two injured in two separate shootings in South Bend Latest News Notre Dame tight end Eli Raridon drafted 95th overall in NFL Draft by New England Patriots Notre Dame wide receiver Malachi Fields drafted 74th overall in NFL Draft by New York Giants Notre Dame unveils 2026 edition of ‘The Shirt’ Man seriously injured after high-speed chase ends in crash in Berrien County Matt competes in "Dancing with Our Stars" Locals express data center concerns Mishawaka fire concerns, Miami County inmate death update, and latest with Iran Notre Dame tight end Eli Raridon drafted 95th overall in NFL Draft by New England Patriots