Vantage completes construction on first data center in Goodyear, Arizona - DCD Home News Construction & Site Selection Vantage completes construction on first data center in Goodyear, Arizona Company has topping off ceremony for first 32MW facility on Phoenix campus November 24, 2021 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Vantage Data Centers has completed the construction of a new data center in Goodyear, Arizona. The company this week announced the topping-out of its first 32MW data center on the 160MW campus outside of Phoenix. – Vantage Data Centers Vantage bought the land in early 2019 and began construction work the same year. The first phase of development will be comprised of a single-story facility and is scheduled to be operational by spring 2022. “As we continue to expand globally, Vantage is also increasing our footprint across North America to meet our customers growing needs, providing high-quality data centers in strategic markets,” said Jeff Tench, president, North America, Vantage Data Centers. “Our customers have identified Phoenix as an ideal location due to its low power costs, rich connectivity and business-friendly environment. This is a fitting market for hyperscalers, cloud providers, and larger enterprises who need a west coast presence for their digital infrastructure requirements.” Located on 50 acres, the Goodyear campus will include three data centers and more than 1 million square feet once fully developed. The company said the campus will employ a closed-loop chilled water system with air-side economizers that allows for reduced energy use based on outside ambient temperature. The system will reportedly use no ongoing water, making the planned water usage efficiency (WUE) near-zero (liters/kW/hr). Attendees of the topping-out ceremony included Vice Mayor Brannon Hampton; Council Members Joe Pizzillo, Sheri Lauritano, and Bill Stipp; Assistant to the Council John Raeder; as well as city staff and officials from the general contractor Layton Construction. “We are excited Vantage chose Goodyear for its flagship location in the southwest region. The company’s commitment to sustainability is demonstrated by design decisions which virtually eliminate water for cooling,” said Vice Mayor Brannon Hampton. “The city of Goodyear has established itself as a dynamic locality by attracting top technology companies and knowledge-based jobs. We look forward to a sustained partnership as the first facility opens its doors next year.” Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 02 Dec 2025 Nvidia invests $2bn in Synopsys as part of a multi-year deal to bolster AI chip design and engineering Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection Preventing multimillion dollar data center losses through reporting 22 Apr 2026 Meta breaks ground on data center in Tulsa, Oklahoma Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities Tags Arizona Phoenix Vantage Data Centers Vantage Goodyear AZ11 Comments