Google has acquired land for potential data center in Putnam County, officials announce Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 61 ° Sun 75 ° Mon 82 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY Google has acquired land for potential data center in Putnam County, officials announce by SHANNON STOWERS, BAILEE TUCKER Fri, March 27, 2026 at 8:47 AM Updated Sun, March 29, 2026 at 9:09 PM 4 VIEW ALL PHOTOS A new data center project could be in the works in Putnam County, and this one is backed by one of the largest tech companies in the world. (Sinclair Broadcast Group) Comment on this story 15 Comment Share story Share topics: Google Data center Putnam County West Virginia High Impact Development Infrastructure Jobs Water replenishment PUTNAM COUNTY, W.Va. (WCHS) — A new data center project could be in the works in Putnam County, and this one is backed by one of the largest tech companies in the world. Google has purchased land in the Buffalo area for a potential data center campus, according to a statement from the Putnam County Development Authority. A news release from West Virginia Gov. Patrick Morrisey said the company has received approval for a multibillion-dollar “High Impact Development Project.” Del. Kathie Hess Crouse, who represents Putnam County, said in a social media post that the land purchase includes about 1,700 acres at the north end of Buffalo. Putnam County officials said the company is in the early stages and has been and continues to conduct research to determine whether the site is even viable for the data center plan. “The company engaged the Putnam County Development Authority to better understand the local community and has been receptive to the PCDA’s feedback on ways it can provide value," Putnam County Development Authority Executive Director Morganne Tenney said in the statement. "PCDA is enthusiastic to see what positive impact Google can make in West Virginia after learning about the company’s impact in other states through primary and ancillary jobs, infrastructure improvements and significant financial contributions." People living in Buffalo are unsure about the project though, saying it will hurt local farmers. "They're really just forcing generational farmers to to be pushed out of their land and have to go somewhere else," said Alisa Winters whose grandparents live beside the proposed site. "Or, completely quit farming because this is the land that you fought so hard for and that you've worked so hard for." Others worry about the effects it might have on the environment. "That’s actually probably my main concern is the noise and the light pollution," said Buffalo resident Madison Bissell. "I mean, I know that the construction is gonna, and then the ongoing operations will probably have an impact on the area, but that’s just the short term. The long term is gonna be the noise and the light pollution from the cooling system and the operation.” Crouse said the project is at least a year away from any potential construction. As part of the long-term plan, Google will be covering 100% of the electricity used to power the facility. Morrisey also said the company has also committed to covering all water and sewer upgrades needed, “ensuring those costs are not passed on to residential households.” “Google has further pledged to replenish more water than it consumes by 2030, targeting 120% replenishment on average across its operations while supporting water security in the communities where it operates,” Morrisey said. We are excited about this partnership between the State of West Virginia and Google.” Crouse says Google plans to follow strict environmental protocols, limiting harm. “They have to go by all DEP and EPA regulations," she said. "So the environmental impact should be very small.” The governor called the announcement a sign that the state is being competitive in the economy. “Google’s decision to come in West Virginia is a strong signal that our state is competing and winning for the jobs and industries of the future,” he said. “This is exactly the kind of opportunity we are working to bring here - one that creates jobs, strengthens infrastructure and positions West Virginia for long-term growth.” Similar Google campuses in other states have generated thousands of construction jobs and hundreds of full-time positions, the governor’s news release said. Comment with Bubbles READ THE COMMENTS (15) The announcement comes after the West Virginia Legislature recently passed laws like House Bill 2014 that establish a clear framework for the establishment of new data center projects in the state. Trending Surveillance video shows ambulance run over Elkview man before speeding away A tragic death in Kanawha County is now at the center of growing questions and calls for accountability and justice. Deputies ask for public assistance in St. Albans burglary investigation Deputies are asking for public assistance following a burglary reported in St. Albans.The incident occurred at a Dollar General location along Winfield Road abo Records show long list of violations at Catalyst Refiners prior to deadly chemical release Crews are continuing hazmat cleaning operations at Catalyst Refiners in Institute after a chemical reaction killed two people earlier this week.On Thursday, the Child neglect charges filed in Raleigh County investigation, deputies say An investigation in Raleigh County led to felony child neglect charges being filed, deputies said.Christopher Charles Young, 40, has been charged with counts of Student charged following alleged threats toward high school in Scioto County Student charged following alleged threats toward high school in Scioto County NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 3 Dozens rally at Putnam County meeting against proposed Google data center in Buffalo 3 State Health Department to begin awarding $200M rural health grants within two weeks 5 Records show long list of violations at Catalyst Refiners prior to deadly chemical release 3 Lawmakers leave West Virginia's school funding formula unchanged, despite $114K study