Energy Capital Partners announces plans for $5bn Pennsylvania data center - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Energy Capital Partners announces plans for $5bn Pennsylvania data center Facility to be developed by Calpine Corporation August 18, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say Plans have been announced for a Pennsylvania data center worth $5bn. As part of the $90bn pledged by various data center and energy firms for Pennsylvania’s digital infrastructure following an investment summit attended by President Trump on July 15, investment firm Energy Capital Partners (ECP) intends to develop a data center through its energy business Calpine Corporation. York 2 Energy Center being constructed, 2019 – McClure Company The facility will be built on Calpine’s 828MW York 2 Energy Center, located in Peach Bottom Township, York County. York County President Commissioner Julie Wheeler said: “This project is just another example of how we’re building a better York County that’s at the leading edge of economic progress.” The data center will have access to the gas turbine-powered power station's 828MW of capacity. York is not a data center hotspot. Most of Pennsylvania's data centers are located around Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. Operators in the state include Iron Mountain, EdgeConneX, Ark, DataBank, Equinix, and 365 Data Centers, among others. Since its founding in 2005, ECP has owned, controlled, and operated more than 83GW of power generation across the US, spanning natural gas, geothermal, hydro, solar, wind, battery storage, and waste-to-energy. It has $73 billion of assets under management across private equity, credit, and infrastructure. ECP-owned Calpine recently inked a deal with data center operator CyrusOne to provide 190MW of power for the company’s data center in Texas. More in Construction & Site Selection Hong Kong: Asia’s connectivity hub 10 Apr 2026 Underwater data center proposed off the coast of Ulsan, South Korea secures gov't funding - report Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 03 Feb 2026 T-Mobile to lay off close to 400 jobs in Washington state, includes data center roles Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Calpine Corporation Energy Capital Partners Peach Bottom Township Pennsylvania York 2 Energy Center York County Comments