Novva Data Centers buys 205 acres of land in Las Vegas, Nevada - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Novva Data Centers buys 205 acres of land in Las Vegas, Nevada VanTrust sells land in Apex Industrial Park to data center firm August 29, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say US operator Novva Data Centers has acquired more land in Las Vegas, Nevada. Citing local property records, the Las Vegas Review-Journal reports VanTrust Real Estate sold nearly 205 acres in the Apex Industrial Park in North Las Vegas to Novva. Render of Novva's first Vegas facility – Novva Data Centers The $181 million deal reportedly closed earlier this month. VanTrust EVP Keith Earnest confirmed to the RJ that the developer had sold the land, located along Interstate 15, but declined to name the buyer. Novva didn’t comment to the publication. Details of any planned data center development on the site weren’t shared. Novva already operates a data center in North Las Vegas near the Las Vegas Motor Speedway. The 275,000 sq ft (25,548 sqm) single-story facility at 6115 Nicco Way was purchased in 2022 from VanTrust and converted into a 100MW data center . Novva was launched in 2020 by former C7 CEO Wes Swenson with $95m from CIM . The company has data centers in operation or development in West Jordan, Utah; Colorado Springs , Colorado; Las Vegas and Reno , Nevada; San Francisco , California; and Phoenix , Arizona. According to the City of North Las Vegas, the Apex park encompasses 18,000 acres, with approximately 5,000 acres of which are developable. Some 28.5 million sq ft (2.64 million sqm) of industrial space is currently completed, under construction, or is planned at the park. The project is supported by developers including Prologis, Hopewell, Moonwater, Dermody, Caprock, Prometheus Development, and Van Trust. VanTrust had acquired the now-sold land as part of a 350-acre purchase in 2021 for $44.75m. At the time, the company had plans to build a 4.5 million sq ft (418,063 sqm) industrial campus. VanTrust Real Estate is a full-service real estate development company that acquires and develops real estate assets for the Van Tuyl family portfolio. More traditionally focused on industrial real estate, it has made a number of deals with data center firms in recent years. VanTrust Real Estate has previously leased an industrial property in Kansas City, Kansas, to QTS for a data center. It has also sold a building and land outside Columbus, Ohio, to EdgeConneX for a data center development. Aligned acquired land from VanTrust in Phoenix, Arizona, last year. More in Colocation & Wholesale NTT Global Data Centers Guide to India data center expansion 15 Apr 2026 Two-building data center campus proposed in northeast Pennsylvania 04 Dec 2025 Bitzero breaks ground on Finland data center More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 17 Dec 2025 Verizon signs tower leasing deal with Array Digital Infrastructure Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Apex Industrial Park Clark County Las Vegas Nevada North Las Vegas Novva Novva Data Centers VanTrust Real Estate Comments