Norton to host meeting to discuss proposed data center at mine site NEWS Norton plans Monday meeting to answer questions about proposed data center at former mine Craig Webb Akron Beacon Journal Oct. 13, 2025, 6:03 a.m. ET A public meeting is scheduled for residents to discuss a proposed data center in Norton. The project, known as Project Triton, would be built on a 90-acre former limestone mine. Developers say the facility will generate its own power and not strain the local energy grid. The city has created a website to address resident questions about the project's impact. Norton is planning a public meeting for residents to learn more and ask questions about a proposed data center in the community. The meeting over Project Triton is slated for 7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. Monday, Oct. 13, at the Norton Community Center, 4060 Columbia Woods Drive. The proposed massive data center would be on some 90 acres off South Cleveland-Massillon Road that was once owned by PPG Industries and was a limestone mine about 50 years ago. The plans call for the construction of a 485,000-square-foot center along with a 157,000-square-foot power yard with six natural gas turbines at the former mine site. The data center would be roughly the size of two Walmart stores. The proposed facility would house computers that would store and process information for AI and planning applications for businesses. Website created to answer questions about Project Triton There are still a number of hurdles developers need to clear before construction of the data center could begin. In the meantime, Norton has created a website to answer questions about the project being led by Quantum HPC . The company says the goal of this project is show that a data center can be created that would not create a strain on the local energy grid or other resources. If the project moves forward, Quantum says about 280 construction jobs would be created with an estimated payroll of $40 million. And once the facility is up and running, there would be about 110 employees with an annual payroll of $10 million at the site. Norton says it has fielded a number of questions from residents so it create the FAQ web page to answer some of them. What are some of the questions about Project Triton? The city's FAQ website at cityofnorton.org answers many of the questions being posed about the project. They include: What is the source of water that is being used for the initial filling of the closed loop cooling system? The site will use trucked-in fluid for the closed loop system. No municipal water will be used for this purpose . What will the systems ongoing water needs be and how will water be supplied? The system is closed, so it will rarely need water added. If water is needed due to repair, trucked in fluid stored onsite will be used. Will there be any water wells drilled on the property? No. How will the operation of the site impact the local power grid? It won’t. The site generates its own power from clean natural gas using an existing and redundant pipelines and compressor stations. How will development on the site impact safety of the community? The site is equipped with fire safety systems and 24/7 security. There is no storage yard for bulk liquid natural gas, and there will be no hazardous materials stored in the mine. Will there be any light pollution from the site? No. LED lights will point downward, and existing and newly planted coniferous trees will block most light, even in the winter. Will there be excessive noise from the operation of the site? No. Cooling uses a closed-loop system. Equipment is sound-proofed or installed inside noise containment areas. Noise levels will be tested and monitored. Will future phases of the Project include use of the Mine? Potentially. Future use of the Mine could include CO2 storage and reuse, or secure data storage. Will the weight of the facility make the mine cave in? Geotechnical reports confirm the mine lies over 1,500 feet below the site, separated by limestone formations and supported by natural limestone pillars. Featured Weekly Ad