Midway Green Industrial Park - Union County Development Board Contact Union County Development Board 207 South Herndon Street Union, SC 29379 Phone: 864.319.1097 Fax: 864.319.1099 info@UnionDevelopmentBoard.com Dolton Williams, Executive Director dwilliams@uniondevelopmentboard.com , Name: * Title: Organization: Email: * Address: Phone: Comments: * reCAPTCHA If you are human, leave this field blank. Midway Green Industrial Park Our industrial sites and parks have been developed through collaboration between state, city and county governments, private owners and the Development Board. Union County is a viable, vibrant place to do business. Choose to see site or buildings Midway Green Industrial Park Cudd Site at Mac Johnston Industrial Park Trakas North Trakas South Union Commerce Park Doug Johnson Industrial Park Mac Johnston Industrial Park Jonesville Industrial Park Midway Green Industrial Spec Building Midway Milliken Building Midway Green Industrial Park Download the Flyer Watch Video Midway Green Industrial Park Union County, South Carolina See Location Map Property Size: 141.00 ac Zoning: Industrial Park Water: 10mgd capacity; 4mgd excess capacity Sewer: 6mgd capacity; 4mgd excess capacity Electric Power: 34kV line; Available capacity >30MW Natural Gas: 6,000mcf/day; 30 psi Rail: Accessible – Norfolk Southern See Conceptual Site Plan Download Flyer A Clear Vision for the Future Midway Green Industrial Park, owned by Pacolet Milliken Enterprises, is a South Carolina Department of Commerce Certified Industrial Park. Pacolet Milliken Enterprises, Inc. is a private, family owned investment company with a history that dates back, through Milliken & Company, to the 1860’s. PME operates with an absolute commitment to carefully steward the earth’s resources, to better the communities in which it operates, and to respect its partners, directors, shareholders and management. We honor the values that guide the families ownership and take pride in conducting business in a way that reflects them. Served by Lockhart Power Company, this park has high reliability and low cost power. Over 99% of Lockhart Power’s owned generation comes from renewable resources. Landfill gas is available for generation, direct thermal use, and low pressure steam plus hot water. The adjacent wastewater treatment plant provides treated grey water for process needs. Perfect for large electrical consumers concerned with their environmental footprint. Please consult the downloadable flyer for more details. Site Specifications and Utility Providers Owner: Pacolet Milliken Enterprises Location: 265 Midway Drive Union, SC 29379 Sales Price: $10,000 per ac All Utilities Onsite Water and Wastewater Provider: City of Union Water Main Diameter: 10” Wastewater Main Diameter: 8″ gravity Electric Power Provider: Lockhart Power Company; a renewable energy utility Natural Gas Provider: City of Union Gas Line Diameter: 4” Telecommunications: AT&T and Charter Communications Copper and fiber optic cable is accessible. Site Due Diligence: All Complete and Available