CyrusOne partners with Constellation for 760MW data center campus in Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel CyrusOne partners with Constellation for 760MW data center campus in Texas New development to be located next to Calpine’s Freestone Energy Center February 09, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say CyrusOne is planning a new data center campus in Texas, colocating next to an existing natural gas power plant. Constellation and CyrusOne this week announced that Calpine LLC, a business unit of Constellation, signed a new 380MW agreement with CyrusOne to connect and serve a new data center adjacent to the Freestone Energy Center, in Freestone County. – Google Maps "This agreement reinforces CyrusOne's commitment to meeting customer demand in Texas," said Eric Schwartz, CEO of CyrusOne. "Partnering with Constellation and Calpine enables us to deliver reliable, scalable infrastructure while ensuring grid reliability for local communities." Freestone County is located some 90 miles (144.8km) south of Dallas. The Freestone Energy Center is a natural gas-fired combined-cycle facility located on approximately 506 acres near Fairfield. Calpine has also entered into an exclusive agreement to provide power, grid connectivity, and site infrastructure for Phase II, which will be an additional 380MW. "This agreement with CyrusOne demonstrates Constellation's ability to meet the growing demand from the data economy while maintaining grid reliability, creating jobs and economic growth, and benefiting local customers and communities,” said Joe Dominguez, Constellation president and CEO. “By leveraging existing infrastructure and grid connections, we can help customers move quickly while ensuring continued reliability for Texans. With deep expertise and a coast-to-coast presence, Constellation is helping lay the foundation that will keep America at the forefront of AI and digital technology during this defining moment in our nation's history." The announcement follows a similar agreement sealed last year between CyrusOne and Calpine for another gas power plant site outside the Dallas-Fort Worth area. CyrusOne is developing a 400MW campus adjacent to Calpine’s Thad Hill Energy Center in Bosque County. The first data center is currently under construction and expected to be operational by the fourth quarter of 2026. KKR-owned CyrusOne has more than 50 data centers across the US and European markets. In the Texas market, it has more than 14 data centers – both planned and operational – with more than half based around Dallas-Fort Worth. Calpine is the largest generator of electricity from natural gas and geothermal resources in the US. It operates a fleet of 79 energy facilities with a generating capacity of more than 2.7GW. Constellation announced it was acquiring Calpine in January 2025 . The deal closed last month. Constellation said the project will utilize the company's Powered Land Capabilities, a suite of products and services designed to support large-load customers by pairing generation, land, and grid access in a way that “prioritizes reliability, speed-to-market, and predictability for the broader system.” Subscribe to our daily newsletters Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter series. More in Construction & Site Selection North America data center report: Year-end 2025 14 Jan 2026 Cloverleaf backs out of data center project in Greenleaf, Wisconsin Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in Critical Power Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 08 Apr 2026 EdgeMode inks deal with unnamed fuel cell developer for onsite power across Spain Episode Tech showcase: Data center battery design evolution Tags Calpine Corporation Calpine Energy Constellation Constellation Energy CyrusOne Dallas Fort Worth Fairfield Freestone County Freestone Energy Center Natural Gas Texas Comments