Data center proposal rejected in Pekin, Illinois - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Data center proposal rejected in Pekin, Illinois Plans for the 321-acre campus are no more March 10, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say The City of Pekin in central Illinois has decided not to continue pursuing a data center proposal that would have seen the construction of a 321-acre campus on former farmland. “I have made the difficult decision that the City of Pekin will not move forward with this project at this time,” Pekin’s Mayor, Mary Burress, said at a city council meeting on Monday. – City of Pekin Burress’ announcement was immediately met with applause and cheers from those who expressed opposition to the potential facility since news of it began circulating last April, when the city entered into a tentative land sale agreement with developer Western Hospitality Partners. The agreement concerned a 321 land parcel on the Lutticken Property , a 1,000-acre “residential, commercial, and technology-focused” development between Highway 98 and Sheridan Road. The land was not yet sold to the developer because the agreement stipulated that Western Hospitality Partners had until the end of this March to complete its due diligence. But Burress’ statement has effectively rejected the proposal as the land sale would also require city council approval. “Instead, we will continue focusing on opportunities that best align with the long-term interest of our community. I want to be honest – this decision was not easy for me. Projects like this often come with potential investment, jobs, and long-term economic opportunity,” said Burress. “At the same time, leadership also requires listening. Over the course of these discussions, it has become clear that many in our community have serious concerns about whether this project fits Pekin and the future we envision together. “When a project creates this level of uncertainty and division, it is important for us to step back and consider whether moving forward is truly the right path.” No zoning petitions, permits, and incentives related to the data center have been filed or approved, according to the city . Opposition to the proposed campus has been fierce ever since it was announced, with concerns expressed about the data center’s impact on the local environment and its energy and water usage. An opposition group, Tazewell County Data Center Opposition, currently has more than 5,000 members on Facebook. The same group had more than 2,000 members just two months ago . It also brought a petition against the development to city officials during a meeting in late January. Few details about the company are available, but Western Hospitality Partners has previously been linked to several data center projects across Kentucky , Indiana , and Pennsylvania . It has faced delays and pushback against several proposed developments. Pekin is a city located south of Peoria, central Illinois. More in Construction & Site Selection North America data center report: Year-end 2025 28 Oct 2025 Nvidia and Deutsche Telekom to build data center in Munich, Germany - report Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 14 Jan 2026 CyrusOne partners with energy firm Eolian for Dallas data center Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Highway 98 Illinois Lutticken Property Mary Burress Pekin Sheridan Road Tazewell County Western Hospitality Partners Comments