Vantage Data Centers VA11 | 45200 Vantage Data Plaza, Northern Virginia - datacenterHawk Contact Vantage Data Centers Vantage Data Centers · VA11 45200 Vantage Data Plaza Sterling, VA United States www.vantage-dc.com This facility is operated by Vantage Data Centers and is located in the Northern Virginia data center market. The data center was purpose built and is currently sized at 720,000 SF, including non-critical space. VA11's cooling infrastructure offers N+2 redundancy. Contact Vantage Data Centers Current status and power pipeline Commissioned This facility has been commissioned. Under Construction There is no leaseable power under construction. Planned There are no plans to add additional leaseable power. Proximity to key digital infrastructure Data Centers Cloud On Ramps Carrier Hotel Details This Location Vantage Data Centers VA11 Data Center Vantage Data Centers VA12 0.04 miles +1 Cloud On Ramps AWS Direct Connect Microsoft Azure ExpressRoute Equinix DC21 1.12 miles +1 Cloud On Ramps AWS Direct Connect Google Cloud Equinix DC11 1.45 miles +3 Cloud On Ramps AWS Direct Connect Google Cloud Oracle Cloud Microsoft Azure ExpressRoute Equinix DC6 1.48 miles +2 Carrier Hotel Equinix DC2 1.51 miles Cloud On Ramps AWS Direct Connect Google Cloud Microsoft Azure ExpressRoute 2 mi Location details Building Connectivity Infrastructure Compliance Services Security Building Year Built 2019 Purpose Built or Retrofit Purpose Built Building Size 720,000 SF Building Owner Vantage Power On Site Substation Yes Single or Dual Feed Dual Feed Market Avg Power Cost 6.85 Power Provider Dominion Energy Providers POPs Services Coming Soon UPS N+1, Distributed redundant Generator N+1 Cooling N+2 SSAE-16 SSAE-18 HIPPAA PCI DIACAP Energy Star ISO FISMA FEDRAMP NIST SOC 1 SOC 2 SOC 3 Uptime Institute MO Site Award Uptime Institute Tier III Constructed Uptime Institute Tier III Design Private Suites Cloud Dedicated Infrastructure SLA 99% CCTV Card Key Access Man Trap Perimeter Fencing Looking for a colocation partner? Find a qualified provider fit for your colocation requirements. Contact Vantage Data Centers Unlock Facility Information Guess less. Make better decisions about data center real estate. Continue with LinkedIn Continue with Email By providing your information, you consent to allow datacenterHawk to store and process the personal information submitted above and agree to our terms and condititions as well as our Privacy Policy By providing your information, you consent to allow datacenterHawk to store and process the personal information submitted above and agree to our terms and condititions as well as our Privacy Policy First Name * Required! Last Name * Required! Company * Required! Work Email * Required! Get Access Continue with LinkedIn By selecting "Get Access" you consent to allow datacenterHawk to store and process the personal information submitted above and agree to our terms and condititions as well as our Privacy Policy By selecting "Get Access" you consent to allow datacenterHawk to store and process the personal information submitted above and agree to our terms and condititions as well as our Privacy Policy Thank you! Your submission has been received Back to site