Tract expands into Illinois with plans for 1GW data center park outside Chicago - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Tract expands into Illinois with plans for 1GW data center park outside Chicago Secures 343-acre site January 16, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Data center park developer Tract is expanding into Chicago, Illinois. The company said the 343-acre land parcel in Morris, IL, known as the Morris Technology Park, is fully zoned and has capacity secured from Commonwealth Edison Company (aka ComEd). The campus, located off I-80 and Highway 6 in Morris, can reportedly support up to 1GW at full build-out across ~2.9 million sq ft of data center capacity. Initial energization is targeted for June 2028, and a full 1GW load ramp achieved by 2032. The site of Morris Technology Park – Tract “The Morris Technology Park project is the result of several years of close collaboration with the City of Morris, ComEd, and the Illinois Economic Development Corporation (IEDC), and state leaders,” said Graham Williams, president of Tract. “We were impressed with the foresight and proactive approach of the Morris community leaders in preparing a fully annexed and zoned economic development site suitable for a data center campus of this size. We appreciate our partnership and look forward to collaborating on and supporting future infrastructure as this project moves forward.” Morris is a city in and the county seat of Grundy County, some 60 miles southwest of downtown Chicago. “This project is the result of years of collaboration with the City of Morris, ComEd, Illinois Economic Development Corporation, and state and local leaders,” the company said on LinkedIn . “The combination of the location and the scale offers a unique opportunity to create truly fungible capacity that can support cloud, inference, and training workloads today with the ability to adjust over time.” Colorado-based Tract was founded by former Cologix CEO Grant van Rooyen and describes itself as a company that acquires and develops ‘master-planned’ data center parks. The company aims to get sites zoned, powered, and shovel-ready for other companies to develop data centers on. After launching in Nevada in 2023, Tract has plans for large-scale campuses across Texas ( x3 ), Virginia ( x3 ), Arizona , Minnesota ( x3 ), Iowa , and Utah . On its website, the company also lists planned developments in Illinois and has been pursuing a project in North Carolina . The company said it now has more than 25GW of planned capacity and more than 25,000 acres of land under control across the country, including campuses exceeding 1,000 acres and 1GW in each of Arizona, Iowa, Nevada, Texas, Utah, and Virginia. Tract’s parent, Tract Capital, recently launched a dedicated data center developer, known as Fleet DC, that will develop on land owned by Tract as well as other sites. “We are proud of the groundwork the city did from a zoning and infrastructure planning perspective to be able to attract a top data center developer like Tract,” said Chris Brown, Mayor of the City of Morris. “We have a great relationship with the Tract team and look forward to seeing the successful build-out of what is going to be one of the largest data center developments in Illinois. Morris and the surrounding communities will all benefit from infrastructure investment in the area and will position our communities for long-term competitiveness in the national digital infrastructure market.” “ComEd is proud to power the new Morris Technology Park - a project that will bring jobs and high-tech investment to keep our region competitive,” added Gil Quiniones, president and CEO of ComEd. “Working in partnership with the State of Illinois, local leaders, and Tract, we’re ensuring the energy infrastructure is ready to support this cutting-edge facility. With new transmission security agreements in place, we will help further development in northern Illinois while shielding existing ComEd customers from the costs of connecting and serving large infrastructure projects on the grid.” More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 24 Nov 2025 AWS to spend $50bn expanding AI and HPC capacity for US government Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 24 Apr 2026 Sany International announces plans for data center in Timișoara, Romania Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era Tags Illinois Morris Morris Technology Park Tract Comments