520-acre data center campus planned in Beaver Dam, Wisconsin - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 520-acre data center campus planned in Beaver Dam, Wisconsin Developer and end-user not named, working through Degas LLC February 05, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A data center campus could be coming to Wisconsin. Local press including WPR and Daily Dodge report an unnamed developer is looking to build a campus in Beaver Dam in Dodge County, some 60 miles northwest of Milwaukee. A data center could be coming to Beaver Dam, WI – Alliant Energy A company working through the Degas LLC affiliate is seeking to invest around $567m developing a data center campus on a 520-acre site previously marketed as the Beaver Dam Commerce Park. The site is located along US Highway 151, Hemlock Road, and County Highways A and W – it is on sale for $20,000 per acre. Trent Campbell of the Beaver Dam Area Development Corporation confirmed to the press that the Beaver Dam Area Development Corporation, the city of Beaver Dam and Alliant Energy are working in partnership on a potential data center project. Campbell said the project has yet to be finalized but “significant progress” had been made. The city has approved development and water/wastewater agreements with the potential end user. “The entity we are working with is currently attempting to obtain non-local project approvals. Any future development will be dependent on the success of those efforts,” he said. “While site preparation work may commence in the coming weeks, facility construction and related local permitting would not take place until all required project approvals are secured.” The end-user behind the Degas affiliate has not been named. “At every stage of project planning, the company has demonstrated its desire to be a good neighbor and sound environmental steward. They would be a wonderful addition to the Beaver Dam business community,” Campbell added. “We look forward to sharing additional project information in the near future.” A spokesperson for Alliant Energy told WPR the utility is in the “exploratory and due diligence phases of a potential project.” An American Transmission Co. application from November notes a load interconnection request by Wisconsin Power & Light Co (WPL) to serve a new large load associated with a data center in the Beaver Dam area that would need to see new transmission lines developed. More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 28 Oct 2025 AI data center firm Volt launches, targets deployments in Netherlands, US, and UAE Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 13 Jan 2026 Data center project in Lawrence County, Ohio, sparks calls for moratorium in neighboring city Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Degas LLC Beaver Dam Dodge County Beaver Dam Commerce Park Wisconsin Comments