Developer withdraws plan to build 316-acre data center in Spring Hill, Kansas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Developer withdraws plan to build 316-acre data center in Spring Hill, Kansas Identity of prospective end-user still unknown March 09, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say The developer behind a plan to build a 316-acre data center in Spring Hill, Kansas, has withdrawn its proposal ahead of a planning commission meeting that was set to take place on March 25. Data center consultancy firm Colossus Data Center Advisors wanted to build a campus at the southeast corner of 191st St. and Renner Road, and the company was set to request that the land parcel be rezoned for manufacturing uses. Data center would have been located southeast of the red pin – Google Maps But fierce opposition from local residents and the threat of a potential lawsuit caused the company to withdraw abruptly, according to reporting by local news station KMBC . Colossus’ PR firm Parris Communications emailed KMBC last Friday, saying that they were “no longer pursuing the opportunity near 191st and Renner.” This was soon followed up by an official announcement from the City of Spring Hill, who wrote in a March 6 Facebook post that “there [was] no longer a pending zoning request for that property.” The identity of the prospective end-user is still unknown. Colossus Data Center Advisors provides services related to the construction and planning of data centers, including site selection and owner’s representation. It was founded in March 2024 by Jake Wagner and Dillon Zahler, both of whom have experience in the data center industry. Wagner was formerly a VP specializing in data center capital markets at JLL and a senior vice president at investment firm StratCap, which specializes in data centers. Zahler was the director of data center development at data center firm Evoque and held the same title at data center consultancy Worldwide Mission Critical before joining Colossus. Spring Hill is a city located in eastern Kansas, southwest of Kansas City and close to the state’s border with Missouri. More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 24 Apr 2026 Brunswick Real Estate files to build data center outside Helsinki, Finland Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 14 Jan 2026 Duos Edge delivers Edge data center to school district in Hereford, Texas Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Colossus Data Center Advisors Dillon Zahler Jake Wagner Kansas Parris Communications Spring Hill Comments