Google takes over Project Maize data center campus in Michigan City, Indiana - DCD Home News The Cloud & Hybrid Channel Google takes over Project Maize data center campus in Michigan City, Indiana Development continues despite opposition April 20, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say Google has taken over the much-disputed Project Maize data center development in Michigan City, Indiana. The Michigan City Economic Development Corporation (EDC) revealed that Google acquired the project, planned at 402 Royal Road, last week. – Google Maps The data center will transform a long-vacant building at the site, which was previously home to the Federal Mogul Corp. At present, it has been empty for more than 15 years. Google is set to invest some $832 million in the data center project. Michigan City Mayor, Angie Nelson Deuitch, said: “We continue to progress toward a new level of prosperity with an eye to embracing innovative redevelopment projects. By accepting the need for data centers in our tech-based culture and welcoming Google as a community partner, we are spotlighting Michigan City as a hub for digital infrastructure.” Project Maize has been in the works since H1 2025. In early July 2025 , it was awarded tax exemptions by the EDC, but later that month, Mayor Deuitch claimed that the city would not be pursuing the project. At the time, the Mayor claimed that “the developer did not present any binding commitments that would ensure lasting benefits for Michigan City residents." Despite this, in September , the Michigan City Common Council gave Phoenix Investors - the owner of the site - approval to go ahead. Broderick Green, Google's data center public affairs manager, said: “We understand this site has faced challenges in the past, and we are committed to being a collaborative and transparent partner as we move forward. We don’t just build data centers; we become part of the community. This includes paying for 100 percent of the cost of power for the site and any infrastructure needs driven by our operations.” EDC executive director Clarence Hulse added: "Collaborating with Google on the data center is infusing funds in our community for additional economic development, the creation of 30-plus high-skill jobs, and support of programs and education rooted in technology." No timelines for the development have been provided as yet, and details about the data center project remain sparse. Michigan City is located near Chicago, Illinois, and near the Michigan state border in Indiana. Google also has a campus in Fort Wayne, Indiana, that went live in December 2025 . Elsewhere in Indiana, Google is developing a 390-acre campus in Morgan County. The Hoosier State is seeing growing interest from developers, and, in November 2025, Amazon Web Services announced it would invest $15bn in data centers and AI infrastructure in the state, in addition to the $11bn investment announced last year in St. Joseph County. Microsoft is developing a site in Mishawaka, Indiana. Meta , US Signals , DataBank , Netrality , and Digital Crossroads also have a presence in the state. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: The New Physics of US Data Center Infrastructure 10 Feb 2026 Ark Data Centres' campus extension approved by local authorities in Wiltshire, UK Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 16 Feb 2026 Colorado Senate proposes 100% renewable mandate for large load data centers Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 402 Royal Road Angie Nelson Deuitch Broderick Green Google Indiana LaPorte County Michigan City Project Maize Comments