St. Charles’ proposed data center sparks environmental concerns | FOX 2 Skip to content by: Nick Gladney Posted: Aug 7, 2025 / 06:57 AM CDT Updated: Aug 7, 2025 / 06:57 AM CDT SHARE ST. CHARLES, Mo. – A proposed data center along Highway 370 in St. Charles is raising environmental concerns among city leaders and residents. According to our partners at the Post Dispatch , the development is planned for an industrial area between Huster Road and Harry S. Truman Boulevard, but its potential impact on the water system is causing concern. City leaders are worried that the data center’s high water usage could strain the city’s water system, while its power demands might overwhelm the region’s electrical grid. Residents have expressed concerns that diesel fuel used to power generators could contaminate nearby wetlands, farms, and the city’s drinking water. The city council is scheduled to vote on the proposal at its meeting on August 19. All facts in this report were gathered by journalists employed by KTVI. Artificial intelligence tools were used to reformat from a broadcast script into a news article for our website. This report was edited and fact-checked by KTVI staff before being published. Add as preferred source on Google Suggest a Correction Close Modal Suggest a Correction Your name (required) Your email (required) Report a typo or grammatical error (required) Submit Correction Δ ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks Popular Six Flags STL reopens with new owners, rebranding … STL Cardinals challenge Canadian team’s trademark … Ray Hartmann, Riverfront Times founder, killed in … St. Charles development to bring 60+ senior living … Nelly to perform at Trump-family private club: Reports Bicyclist struck, killed in hit-and-run crash in … MSHP issues Blue Alert out of Cape Girardeau Community Events Latest News Residents hope cameras will help catch hit-and-run … St. Louis police shooting range spurs noise complaints Six Flags STL reopens with new owners, rebranding … St. Louis budget debate intensifies over police funding ‘Millionaire tax’ proposal fails to advance in Illinois … Metro cities cleaning up after Thursday’s storms View All News