Norton residents push back against proposed Quantum HPC data center | wkyc.com Breaking News More ( ) » Summit County Norton residents push back against proposed data center A group of concerned citizens are pushing back against a proposal to build a new data center in Norton. To stream WKYC on your phone, you need the WKYC app. Download the WKYC app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video NORTON, Ohio — On the quiet street of Ora Avenue in Norton is a home that's been part of Glenn Yasko's family for decades. "Since 1958, my father built this house," said Glenn Yasko. He and his wife, Michelle, relish the green landscape and the calm. "People have moved here for the peace and quiet," said Michelle Yasko. They're also close with their neighbors, so when one of them received a letter about a data center proposed to go up less than 800 feet from the Yaskos' home in Norton, the news traveled fast, and their concerns quickly followed. According to the project developer's website, the data center, called Project Triton , will "create computing systems designed to serve local, regional, and national needs for high-performance technology." The company, Quantum HPC, says the project will generate tax revenue for the Norton City School District and create 280 construction-phase jobs. They also claim there will be no impact to residential electrical, water, or fiber-optic services. But Glenn and Michelle Yasko question the impacts. "This is where we live. And this is our neighborhood," Glenn Yasko said. They worry about their property value, environmental impacts, air and noise pollution. "What will the CO2 emissions be? Have they done sound studies? Where have they done them? Because they should be doing them right at the site or in our backyards," Michelle Yasko said. The Yaskos are working to stop the data center from being built while pushing Quantum HPC for answers on how the site construction would be handled. Their efforts are gaining both traction and attention, as they've stenciled and distributed nearly 250 signs. "We had people coming up to us and asking us, what data center?" Glenn Yasko said. The decision on the data center will ultimately be voted on by Norton City Council. Glenn says if the center is built, neighbors want assurances to protect their property values. "We stand to lose a lot. We stand to lose our neighborhood," Glenn Yasko said. The town hall will take place Monday at 7 p.m. at the Norton Community Center, where residents like the Yaskos will have the opportunity to ask their questions and Quantum HPC will be there to provide answers. 3News reached out to the mayor of Norton, Mike Zita , and Quantum HPC for interviews but did not hear back. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out