Cerebras opens 10MW data center in Oklahoma City - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Cerebras opens 10MW data center in Oklahoma City Previous reports suggest Scale-owned facility hosts more than 300 CS-3 systems September 23, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Wafer-scale chip designer Cerebras Systems has launched a new data center in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. The company this week announced the launch of a 10MW facility in partnership with Scale Datacenters. – Cerebras The facility uses direct-to-chip liquid cooling via a closed-loop system, and the company said every kilowatt-hour consumed is matched with renewable energy. “In 2023, we built our first in-house AI supercomputer, Andromeda—then the largest of its kind,” Cerebras CEO Andrew Feldman said in a blog . “Two years later, our new Oklahoma City facility is more than 44 exaflops of AI compute, and supports the largest models yet invented.” The site reportedly houses 1,400 trillion transistors and 315 million AI cores. Scale Datacenter prepared the site and infrastructure for Cerebras. Scale CEO Trevor Francis said: “We are excited to partner with Cerebras to bring world-class AI infrastructure to Oklahoma City. Our collaboration with Cerebras underscores our commitment to empowering innovation in AI, and we look forward to supporting the next generation of AI-driven applications.” Reports that Scale Datacenter had acquired an 82,000 sq ft (7,618 sqm) data center in the city – on the corner of NW 61st Street, NW 62nd Street, and N Lee Avenue – surfaced in May . The site was bought from natural gas producer Expand Energy. Earlier this year, Cerebras, which develops wafer-scale chips placed inside its proprietary IT hardware systems, announced plans to launch six new AI inference data centers across North America and Europe – including more than 300 CS-3 systems at a Scale Datacenter facility in Oklahoma City that was due to come online in June 2025. Expand Energy put a large part of its office and data center campus in Oklahoma City up for sale earlier this year . According to the sales brochures from Colliers, the data center facility at the time spanned 56,250 sq ft (5,200 sqm), with 2.9MW of IT capacity across 12,000 sq ft (1,100 sqm) of raised floor space. The facility was completed around 2013 for what was then Chesapeake Energy. TierPoint, TulsaConnect, and Lumen all currently have a presence in Oklahoma City. Cerebras has inference clusters live in Santa Clara and Stockton, California (the latter at Nautilus’ floating barge facility ), and Dallas, Texas. The company is rolling out clusters in Minneapolis, Minnesota; Montreal, Canada (at a Bit Digital facility ); and undisclosed locations in the US Midwest and Europe. The company has deployed hardware to the University of Edinburgh , Sandia National Labs , Los Alamos Labs , G42/Core42 , Mayo Clinic , and others . — Cerebras — Cerebras — Cerebras More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 14 Jan 2026 Rubicon to supply Microsoft with 2m carbon removal credits from afforestation project in Uganda Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in AI & Analytics Evolving with AI 24 Feb 2026 Vantage Towers pairs with Elisa Industriq’s Gridle to bolster telecoms infrastructure resiliency in Spain Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities Tags Andrew Feldman Cerebras Cerebras Systems Oklahoma Oklahoma City Scale Datacenter Trevor Francis Comments