1.4 million sq ft data center campus planned outside Philadelphia, Pennsylvania - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 1.4 million sq ft data center campus planned outside Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Proposed campus within spitting distance of Limerick nuclear power station January 15, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Another large data center campus is being planned near a nuclear plant outside Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. As reported by local press, including the Mercury , WFMZ , and the Chestnut Hill Local , a large new data center campus is being proposed in Limerick Township, Montgomery County. – Limerick Township | MCD 7 LLC Representatives of MCD 7 LLC presented plans for a 1.4 million sq ft data center campus on 192 acres at a Limerick Township planning commission meeting last week. The campus – known as Project Laurel – would be on landed bounded by Sanatoga Road to the south, Evergreen Road to the west, Possum Hollow Road to the east and Lightcap Road to the north. The project would consist of eight buildings, five 154,000 sq ft (14,307 sqm) buildings and three 202,000 sq ft (18,766 sqm) facilities. The site has reportedly secured 750MW of capacity from local utility PECO. Full build-out could take up to five years. Limerick Township is located some 37 miles northwest of Philadelphia. The proposed site is less than a mile from the Limerick Generation Station. The 2.2GW nuclear plant launched in 1974 and is owned by Constellation Energy. MCD 7 LLC has owned the property since at least last year. The township adopted a data center ordinance for the property in 2024 . An end-user is reportedly in place, but the company declined to share the name due to non-disclosure agreements. The site currently houses the historic Hood mansion, where human remains were discovered last year. A Change.org petition against the proposal has secured more than 680 signatures at time of writing. Constellation data center plans meet challenge in East Coventry Less than eight miles away, the East Coventry Township planning commission last month unanimously voted to recommend the rejection of a request by Constellation Energy to amend the zoning code to allow for a data center on land near the Route 724 highway. The company is aiming to develop on land comprising plots along New Schuylkill Road and Sanatoga Road in Chester County. Full details of the planned campus weren’t shared by the company’s application said each building would be up to 150,000 sq ft (13,935 sqm). News that the energy company was planning a development on the site surfaced in November . The township board of supervisors will have the final vote, which could happen next month. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 10 Apr 2026 Prologis' 900MW 'Project Sail' gets the go-ahead in Coweta County, Georgia Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 22 Apr 2026 Meta breaks ground on data center in Tulsa, Oklahoma Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Chester County Constellation Constellation Energy East Coventry Township Limerick Generation Station Limerick Township MCD 7 LLC Montgomery County Pennsylvania Philadelphia Comments