$17bn 'Project Sail' data center campus proposed in Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel $17bn 'Project Sail' data center campus proposed in Atlanta, Georgia 832-acre site could house 13 data halls January 02, 2025 By Matthew Gooding Have your say A 13-building data center campus costing $17 billion has been proposed for Atlanta, Georgia. Known as Project Sail, the campus would be built on 832 acres of land near the city of Newnan, 45 miles south of Atlanta in Coweta County. The site is adjacent to Welcome Sargent Road and Wagers Mill Road. The courthouse in Newnan, Georgia. The city could soon be home to a massive data center campus – Jon Frederick/Getty Images Atlas Development LLC, the company behind the scheme, has submitted a Development of Regional Impact (DRI) filing to the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, revealing details of the project. Each of the data halls on the site will be 378,000 sq ft (35,117 sqm), giving it an overall footprint of 4.9 million sq ft (455,244 sqm). Details of IT capacity, or how the data center will be powered, are not included in the application, though the site appears to be close to the Plant Yates gas power station. Operated by Georgia Power, the plant is capable of producing 700MW. The DRI filing says the project will cost $17bn to build, and bring in tax revenue of $1.6bn each year. Atlas Development is asking for rezoning permission for the land, which is currently undeveloped. Details of Project Sail were first reported by The Atlanta Journal-Constitution . Little information about Atlas Development LLC is available online, with its website featuring only a holding page. According to Georgia state records, the company was incorporated in 2017. DCD has contacted Atlas for more information on the project. Atlanta is becoming a major data center hub, with the likes of Digital Realty, CoreSite, Switch, Google, Microsoft, Flexential, H5, and QTS developing or operating data centers in the Atlanta area – largely around Lithia Springs or Douglasville. Recent months have seen Stack file to build two data centers outside Atlanta, in addition to the site it already operates in the region. Elsewhere, Steam hopes to build a 240MW campus on a 1.3 million sq ft (13,870 sqm) site west of Atlanta in Douglas County. More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 24 Feb 2026 Aalyria raises $100m to help grow laser-powered wireless space network Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 08:43 DCD>Studio: Optimizing the data center supply chain, with Nicolas Seltz, Kaya AI Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era Tags Georgia Newnan Project Sail Atlas Development LLC Atlanta Comments