St. Joseph County Council to discuss rezoning 1000 acres of land north of New Carlisle Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 55 ° Sat 63 ° Sun 68 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY St. Joseph County Council on potential data center near New Carlisle, expansion in Granger by Asher Bookspan , WSBT 22 Reporter Tue, May 13, 2025 at 6:52 PM Updated Tue, May 13, 2025 at 10:13 PM 3 VIEW ALL PHOTOS Tuesday night’s meeting is just the first reading of the ordinance, which aims to have the land located between Timothy and Spruce roads be rezoned from agricultural land to industrial land. (WSBT photo) Comment on this story 1 Comment Share story Share topics: St. Joseph County Rezoning New Carlisle Agricultural Industrial Data center Council Meeting SOUTH BEND, Ind. (WSBT) — St. Joseph County Council referring an ordinance that proposes rezoning more than 1-thousand acres of farmland from agricultural to industrial to the Land Use Planning Committee. If re-zoned it would pave the way for an unidentified company to develop a data center just north of where the Amazon Data Center project is currently under construction and not far from the General Motors electric vehicle battery plant that's also on the way. While tonight's proposal is just a first reading, that did not stop the New Carlisle Town Council President from voicing her concerns. "We have a lot to handle with Amazon and with GM coming and we are ... it would be something that probably our community just couldn't absorb with all the growth, with all the traffic, with just industrialization," Marcy Kauffman said. County Council also approving a re-zoning request for the Microsoft Data Center coming to Granger near Cleveland and Currant Roads. It adds around 40 acres to the southwest of that intersection, making the more than 900 acre project even larger. For nearby homeowners, traffic is a major worry. "Even though there were lots of studies and lots of assurances, it's still a mess out there. So I think we can all assume, no matter what, it's still going to be a mess on Cleveland road. So at some point we have to put our foot down and just say enough," Mike McManus said. St. Joseph County Council President Dan Schaetzle says he does understand the concerns but says this expansion for Microsoft was already part of the plan. But he does think the county needs to make sure they are specific about approving any rezoning or data centers in the county. "We are living in an era when things are changing rapidly, and AI and data centers are part of that change. So, you know, we are going to see some of that. But again, I think balance is really important, and we need to find that balance," Schaetzle said. County Council could vote on the re-zoning ordinance for the proposed data center north of New Carlisle next month. Comment with Bubbles READ THE COMMENTS (1) Meanwhile, Microsoft petitioners say that they now hope to conduct a traffic study that will be finished by early July at the latest. Trending Federal rescheduling of marijuana products spurs legalization debate in Indiana A major decision from the White House may have local implications.The Justice Department issued an order rescheduling certain marijuana products to a lower drug The Shirt 2026 unveiled on Notre Dame's campus Friday is a big day on the Notre Dame campus!It's the unveiling of The Shirt 2026.The unveiling is happening at 4:30 p.m. on the Library Lawn.If there's rain th Suspect's vehicle reaches speeds over 110 mph; crashes after Berrien County police pursuit A 20-year-old man was injured in a crash during a police pursuit that reached speeds over 110mph in Berrien County.Police say a Berrien County Sheriff’s deputy Fight to get Chicago Bears to Indiana hits setback Indiana's fight to get the Chicago Bears to build a stadium in Hammond suffered a setback.The Illinois House of Representatives passed legislation that might co Two men arrested in human trafficking operation in Roseland Two men were arrested for soliciting a prostitute in Roseland on Thursday.The arrests were made as a part of a multi-agency operation combatting human trafficki NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 3 St. Joseph County discusses Wedgewood Park street flooding problems 4 Middle school students explore skilled trades with electrical workers 5 Debate is growing over future of Portage Manor 3 Students urged to prioritize safety as they play Senior Assassin game