Data center proposed in Allen Park to be considered by planners – The News Herald Skip to content The exterior of the Edged data center in Aurora on Feb. 26, 2025. A smaller facility is being proposed in Allen Park. (Chris Sweda/Chicago Tribune) By Anne Runkle | arunkle@medianewsgroup.com | The News Herald PUBLISHED: December 8, 2025 at 11:25 AM EST | UPDATED: December 8, 2025 at 5:23 PM EST Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... A proposal to locate a data center on vacant land is coming before Allen Park officials next month. The proposal to locate the facility at 7500 Enterprise Drive, south of I-94, will likely come before the Planning Commission when it meets on 7 p.m. Jan. 8 at City Hall, 15915 Southfield Road. Representatives for Solstice Data appeared before the commission at a meeting Nov. 6, even though the company had not yet submitted a formal plan, said City Administrator Tom Murray, who added Friday that the company had recently submitted formal plans. Proposed data centers around the country are creating controversy because, opponents say, they use large amounts of electricity and water, and the additional costs are often passed on to utility consumers. Data centers are warehouses of computing equipment used to power the internet. Tech companies’ computing needs have skyrocketed as they embrace artificial intelligence, and so has the size of data centers they plan to build, according to a report in The Detroit News. In Allen Park, Solstice is asking the commission for site plan approval for a 45,400-square-foot facility that will provide AI computing capabilities to clients in a variety of industries, according to city documents. The facility will be an “edge” data center that operates as part of a network of data centers throughout the region. Edge facilities are typically smaller than standard data centers, according to a review of the proposal by Carlisle/Wortman, the city’s planning consultant. The largest portion of the development will be a one-story building, with a smaller attachment that is two stories high. The facility will employ about 35 people. Data centers typically include cooling infrastructure to prevent the computing equipment from overheating. A total of 56 dry coolers and 56 chillers are proposed to cool the proposed Allen Park facility, according to the Carlisle/Wortman review. Solstice says in city documents that the facility will use a system that will not consume water for cooling. It will have 12 backup generators for electrical power on site. Matt Baker, director of the Allen Park Building Department, said the city is still reviewing the proposal and has not made a recommendation to the Planning Commission on whether to approve the plan. Solstice officials could not be reached for comment. Joanna Whaley, a candidate for state representative in District 2, which includes Allen Park, is urging residents to learn more about the proposal. “Everyone says this will bring jobs,” she said. “They (data centers) bring jobs when they’re building them. They’re run by machines.” She is concerned about the potential for energy costs being passed on to consumers. The most high-profile proposal for a data center in the state is in Saline Township. DTE Energy has requested permission to provide power to a data center in that community near Ann Arbor, prompting thousands of people to submit online comments to the Michigan Public Service Commission, according to a report in The Detroit News. Supporters say the project could provide thousands of construction jobs and local tax revenue. To detractors, it’s a climate disaster and dangerous gamble for DTE customers who would be saddled with expensive infrastructure if the developer bails on the project and a strained power grid if it goes forward. Road closure planned to allow bridge work after I-94 crash Car prices are going up, but how much of it is from tariffs? Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Print (Opens in new window) Print RevContent Feed More in News 2025 December 8 Close