Suwanee 1 - QTS Data Centers Skip to content Data Center Campus Suwanee 1 QTS’s Suwanee, Georgia data center campus is h ome to some of our largest customers with 100+ MW current planned critical campus capacity in the north suburbs of Atlanta. Schedule a tour Schedule a tour Our data center campus features Campus footprint 53 acre campus Design Delivering a world class experience 53-acre campus Redundant campus fiber conduit system in progress. Allows for express fiber to each building and between future buildings Ample customer amenities such as secure parking, break room with fresh market cafe, conference rooms and Wellness Room Power Powering the campus 50+ MW critical campus capacity Dedicated, on-site substation Dedicated electric vehicle (EV) charging spots available on-site Home of the QTS Operations Support Center Critical campus capacity 50 MW+ DC2 - 120 Satellite Blvd NW, Suwanee, GA 30024 DC1 - 300 Satellite Blvd NW, Suwanee, GA 30024 Suwanee 1 DC1 – 300 Satellite Blvd NW, Suwanee, GA 30024 DC2 – 120 Satellite Blvd NW, Suwanee, GA 30024 View on Google Maps View on Google Maps Schedule an in-person or virtual data center tour QTS is Powered by People who are here for you. See how our advanced technologies and resilient facilities can fit your needs today. Schedule a tour Schedule a tour Resources Becoming one of the fastest growing data center companies was no accident. Our innovative thinkers are the go-to sources for the latest information in data service space. See more helpful resources See more helpful resources Video: Phoenix Community Partnerships QTS is proud to support the communities where we live and work. Hear directly from Phoenix business owners, community members and QTS employees about what it means to work together and how we help each other make every day a little better. Video Apr 24, 2026 Video: QTS and the Southern Conservation Trust Serving as a steward of the environment and the communities we call home, QTS is mindful of the local impact of its data centers, making a long-term commitment to do its part to protect the environment and enrich communities. Video Apr 24, 2026 Employee Spotlight - Brittney Block Meet Brittney Block, who transitioned from a SkillBridge intern to a COT. Article Apr 24, 2026 QTS is Ready When You Are For more than 20 years, we have been committed to serving enterprise and multi-tenant clients with solutions designed to meet the realities of today while preparing for the opportunities of tomorrow. Article Enterprise Colocation Apr 15, 2026 Video: How QTS Engages with Cedar Rapids Watch this video to learn how we make a difference in Cedar Rapids, and connect with us to share feedback, ask questions, or get involved. Video Apr 14, 2026 Employee Spotlights - Facility Operations Get to know our Facility Operations employees and their experience at QTS! Article Mar 27, 2026 Introducing: Q.com - The New Online Address for QTS Why Q.com? Article Mar 23, 2026 Building the right way, every day: Our commitment to communities For more than 20 years, we’ve worked to set a higher standard for digital infrastructure – one grounded in responsibility, transparency and measurable local benefit. Article Community Impact Mar 5, 2026 Setting the Standard for Sustainable Data Centers We’re proud to share that we’ve been honored with the 2026 Sustainable Champion Award from the Northern Virginia Technology Council Article Community Impact Mar 2, 2026 Video: Richmond Community Partnerships QTS is proud to support the communities where we live and work. Hear directly from Richmond business owners and community members about what it means to work together and how we help each other make every day a little better. We believe in showing up, building real relationships and making a positive difference side by side. Video Feb 23, 2026