Lyon Township data center plan meets resistance – Planet Detroit Loading... Skip to content Home » Lyon Township ‘may be revisiting’ data center site plan: Residents pack meeting Lyon Township resident Nancy Hopkins outside a planning meeting Jan. 12, 2026. Photo by Brian Allnutt/Planet Detroit. Overview: - The data center proposal, Project Flex, is composed of six buildings on 172 square acres. - Lyon Township is hosting an informational meeting on the data center Jan. 22 and taking questions for the companies behind the project through Feb. 8. - Read Planet Detroit's tips for civic engagement on the issue. Don’t miss out! Join more than 7,000+ of your neighbors who already receive our informative, independent reporting on climate, health and the environment in their inbox each week. Sign me up Around 125 people showed up at a Lyon Township Planning Commission Monday to voice their disapproval of a 1.8-million-square-foot data center planned for a site south of Grand River Avenue between South Hill and Milford Roads. Many residents of the southwestern Oakland County community questioned the quality of a recently completed sound study and raised concerns about potential impacts to drinking water wells, air quality, and energy reliability. The data center was not on Monday’s meeting agenda. The Lyon Township Planning Commission granted conditional approval for the site plan Sept. 8. Final approval for the data center hinges on an independent review of the sound study and an energy audit, according to a Jan. 8 statement by the township. The township is taking questions about the data center through Feb. 8 . “The Planning Commission may be revisiting the site plan approval for Project Flex to ensure that the required conditions and concerns have been appropriately and thoroughly addressed,” the statement said. The data center proposal is composed of six buildings on 172 acres, approaching the size of the pending 2.2-million-square foot Oracle and Open AI data center in Saline Township . The development, Project Flex, will require a new DTE Energy electrical substation and be served with backup power from both batteries and diesel generators, according to an August site plan application . The data center plans were submitted by Verrus, which is operated by the holding company Sidewalk Infrastructure Partners. Google parent company Alphabet, StepStone, and the Ontario Teacher’s Pension Plan are investors in Sidewalk Infrastructure Partners. “Verrus is working to set a new industry benchmark for responsible development, specifically through cooling and power systems that outperform traditional centers with little to no water consumption or emissions, and game changing new capabilities to actively support power grid reliability with our backup batteries (not diesel generators),” Verrus spokesperson Emily Hebert said in response to a request for comment on this story. Lyon Township resident calls for data center moratorium Many at Monday’s meeting said township officials fell short in notifying the public that a data center was being considered, and demanded commissioners do what they can to slow or stop the development. Lyon Township resident Kelley Haynes said a lot has occurred since the data center site plan was approved, with environmental groups highlighting the facilities’ water and energy use . “The red flags are going up all around us,” Haynes said. She called on commissioners to study the project’s long-term impacts and enact a 12-month moratorium on data center developments. Some residents questioned the Jan. 7 data center noise study in their remarks Monday. The data center would produce operational noise levels below acceptable nighttime and daytime thresholds with an anticipated volume of 44 dB(A), a measurement of decibels that approximates the frequency response of the human ear, according to the study from the consulting firm Kimley-Horn. The sound study does not include a measurement for the noise from diesel backup generators included in the data center plan. The data center’s primary backup power for outages of less than 4 hours would come from a zero-emission battery energy storage system, and for longer outages, packaged diesel generators in acoustic enclosures would be used as a secondary backup, the document said. Diesel backup generators can be as loud as 110 dB(A), the trade publication Data Center Knowledge reports . Lyon Township resident Nancy Hopkins lives roughly 1 mile from the planned data center. She wants township officials to stop development, she told Planet Detroit before Monday’s meeting. The data center could lead to more power outages and increase her electric bills , Hopkins said. Hopkins said she’s concerned the data center’s cooling system and fuel for its backup generators could pollute her well water. Air pollution from generators could exacerbate her family’s health problems, she said. “The pollution is going to affect people like my husband and sister. Both have asthma,” Hopkins said. Community advocates who oppose the data center will host a moderated question-and-answer session with data center experts at 7 p.m.on Jan. 15 at the South Lyon East High School Auditorium. Lyon Township will host an informational data center meeting at 7 p.m. Jan. 22 at the South Lyon East High School Auditorium. 🗳️ What’s next? Tips for civic action Why it matters ⚡ Data centers like the one being considered in Lyon Township have raised concerns in communities because of their potential impacts to water resources, energy reliability, and affordability and state climate goals. Supporters say the projects can bring significant local tax benefits and jobs. Who’s making civic decisions 🏛️ The Lyon Township Planning Commission may revisit a plan for a data center that received conditional site approval in September. How to take civic action now 📅 Attend a moderated question-and-answer session with data center experts hosted by local advocates at 7 p.m.on Jan. 15 at the South Lyon East High School Auditorium, 52200 10 Mile Road. Lyon Township will host an informational data center meeting at 7 p.m. Jan. 22 at the South Lyon East High School Auditorium. 📩 Email Lyon Township Planning Commission members . 📣 Submit questions to Lyon Township for Verrus and property owner Walbridge. -Questions are being accepted until 11:59 p.m. Feb. 8. -You can find a portal for data center questions on the township website . -Questions can be submitted in person by visiting the Lyon Township office at 58000 Grand River Ave., New Hudson, MI 48165 and filling out a form. -You can also write down your question(s) and place them in the township’s drop box near the front entrance of the township hall. What to watch for next 🗓️ The Lyon Township Planning Commission could revisit the data center site plan at an upcoming meeting. Civic impact 🌍 Following data center developments and engaging with the municipalities deciding on them is one way residents can influence the impact data centers have in the state. ⭐Please let us know what action you took or if you have any additional questions. Please send a quick email to connect@planetdetroit.org. MORE DATA CENTER NEWS Data center news: Northville, Springfield Township pass data center moratoriums Northville and Springfield Township enact data center moratoriums, while Saginaw considers one Monday. by Dustin Blitchok January 12, 2026 January 12, 2026 Allen Park officials postpone decision on 26-megawatt data center Allen Park residents say they’re concerned the data center could increase electric rates, while developers say the project will have minimal impacts. by Brian Allnutt January 9, 2026 January 9, 2026 Senate candidate Abdul El-Sayed presents ‘terms of engagement’ for data centers Democratic candidate says legislation is needed to safeguard environment and ratepayers from data center impacts. by Brian Allnutt January 8, 2026 January 8, 2026 Brian Allnutt Senior Reporter Brian Allnutt is a senior reporter a