Suit filed to learn Lake Michigan water use at Microsoft data center LOCAL NEWS Environmental group sues Racine to release expected water use at Microsoft data center Caitlin Looby Ricardo Torres Milwaukee Journal Sentinel Sept. 15, 2025 Updated Sept. 16, 2025, 12:23 p.m. CT An environmental group is suing the city of Racine, Wisconsin, for failing to disclose projected water use for a Microsoft data center in Mount Pleasant. The lawsuit alleges the city of Racine violated public records laws by unlawfully delaying a response to a request made in February. Microsoft is investing billions in the Mount Pleasant data center on land previously owned by Foxconn. An environmental group is suing the City of Racine to disclose projected water use at Microsoft’s Mount Pleasant data center, one of the first moves in what will likely become the next phase of controversy over Great Lakes water rights. On Sept. 15, Midwest Environmental Advocates filed a legal action on behalf of Milwaukee Riverkeeper in Racine County Circuit Court to force the city of Racine to turn over projected water use information because it has failed to respond to a public records request submitted in February. Tech companies like Microsoft have their eyes on the Great Lakes region due to its freshwater resources, which are needed to cool hyperscale data centers. These data centers can use as much water as a small city, so environmental groups warn they will likely have detrimental effects on households, communities and the environment. Often, data centers sign nondisclosure agreements with local governments on water use. In fact, an analysis by researchers found that at least 80% of the local governments that approved or were considering data center projects had signed these agreements. Without knowing how much water the data center will use, the environmental group says it can't properly assess impacts to the environment or Lake Michigan. “Data centers will have major implications for Wisconsin’s environment," said Cheryl Nenn, the Riverkeeper at Milwaukee Riverkeeper, in a release. "Our ability to understand the impacts and protect our water resources depends on open and transparent government.” City of Racine officials said its legal department is planning to review the lawsuit and does not have comment at the time. Microsoft, which is not a defendant in the lawsuit but is mentioned in it, declined to comment on the lawsuit. Here's what you need to know about the legal action. Riverkeeper spells out a delay in producing records The complaint lays out a timeline that states in February a member of the organization reached out to Racine Mayor Cory Mason to access documents related to water usage involving the Microsoft development. City officials directed the organization to the Racine Water Utility. After some email exchanges, Milwaukee Riverkeeper was told in June the city couldn't disclose the information and recommended the organization reach out to Microsoft. In July, the city attorney's office told the organization that the February records request was being reviewed. In August an attorney for the Milwaukee Riverkeeper called the city attorney's office and was told the request had not been reviewed and there was no specific time frame for responding. Milwaukee Riverkeeper is accusing the City of Racine of violating public records laws by creating an "unlawful delay in producing records." Microsoft bought land from Foxconn Microsoft is planning to spend $3.3 billion for a data center in Mount Pleasant, which would be scheduled to open in 2026. The company has begun hiring for the development of the 1,900-acre site . In 2024, then-President Joe Biden and Microsoft President Brad Smith, who grew up in Appleton, announced the company could invest as much as $10 billion overall. In 2023, Microsoft paid $50 million to the Foxconn Technology Group for the land to build the data center. Foxconn was previously planning on building a larger campus, but has since scaled back its plans. Water for the data center will be supplied by the Racine Water Utility per an agreement between the City of Racine and Mount Pleasant. Recently, the municipalities have been at odds with each other on water usuage . In January, Microsoft paid nearly $35 million for land in Kenosha to build a different data center. Environmental groups faced Racine in different legal fight This is not the first time environmental groups have faced Racine in a legal battle over water at the Mount Pleasant site. In 2018, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources approved a diversion under the Great Lakes compact to bring Lake Michigan water to Mount Pleasant, partially outside the Great Lakes Basin. The approval allowed Racine to supply water to Mount Pleasant with up to 7 million gallons of water per day. The city's request was namely for the former Foxconn site, now set to house Microsoft’s data center. It was a move that environmental groups said violated the Great Lakes compact — the landmark agreement between the eight states and two Canadian provinces that touch at least one lake. The compact says water cannot leave the basin, unless under very limited exceptions. A coalition of Wisconsin and Minnesota environmental groups challenged the DNR's approval , arguing diversions should be for residential, not industrial use. An administrative law judge upheld the DNR's approval . Great Lakes ill-prepared for data center water demand, some argue While the Great Lakes may seem like an endless supply of water, only 1% is replenished by rain, snow and groundwater each year. Many of the Great Lakes states have tried to use tax incentives to lure industries that need water, like data centers, to the region. But, a recent report by the Alliance for the Great Lakes warned that the region is ill-prepared for the overwhelming water needs of data centers. According to the report, massive data centers can use more than 365 million gallons of water each year. Over the next five years, these data centers are expected to withdraw up to 150 billion gallons of water — the same amount used by around 4.6 million U.S. households. The report also argued that there is a lack of transparency in water usage with few policies in place to force this disclosure. Caitlin Looby covers the Great Lakes and the environment for the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. Reach her at clooby@gannett.com , and follow her on X @caitlooby. Caitlin's work is supported by the Brico Fund, Fund for Lake Michigan, Barbara K. Frank, and individual contributions. Grants and donations help make this reporting possible. The Journal Sentinel maintains full editorial control. To learn more about our community-funded journalism initiatives, or to make a tax-deductible donation, visit https://givebutter.com/milwaukee-journal-sentinel . Checks can be addressed to Local Media Foundation with “JS Environment” in the memo, then mailed to: Local Media Foundation, P.O. Box 85015, Chicago, IL 60689. Featured Weekly Ad