Data center developers hit pause on $1 billion Howell Township proposal – Planet Detroit Loading... Skip to content Home » Data center developers hit pause on $1 billion Howell Township proposal: ‘The right thing to do now’ A rendering of the landscaping at a proposed $1 billion Howell Township data center that was included in the developer's rezoning application. Image via Howell Township. Overview: - Data center developers pull a rezoning application from consideration ahead of Monday's Howell Township meeting. - The township passed a six-month data center moratorium Nov. 20 in the face of the $1 billion proposed development. - "Time will tell," township treasurer says of the future of the data center proposal. Don’t miss out! Join more than 7,000+ of your neighbors who already receive our informative, independent reporting on climate, health and the environment in their inbox each week. Sign me up The developers of a $1 billion data center in Howell Township withdrew a rezoning request for the project following months of pushback from residents concerned about the facility’s water use and impact on energy costs, among other issues. The applicants are withdrawing the conditional rezoning application “after listening carefully to the community and giving this decision a great deal of thought,” according to a statement on the project’s Facebook page posted late Sunday. “We believe the right thing to do now is to honor the current moratorium, which will give the township and its residents the time needed to develop thoughtful, well-considered regulations for any future data centers,” the Facebook post said. The Howell Township board passed a six-month moratorium on data center developments Nov. 20. With the moratorium in place, the township could have voted on rezoning land, township attorney Christopher Patterson told Planet Detroit Monday — but the site plan for the data center couldn’t have moved forward unless the applicant requested a waiver. The developers’ decision to withdraw the application comes ahead of Monday’s Howell Township board meeting, where a hearing on the data center and a rezoning vote were scheduled. The agenda items have been removed, according to a statement posted Monday afternoon on the township website. The developers may return when the moratorium ends, Township Treasurer and Zoning Administrator Jonathan Hohenstein told Planet Detroit. “‎The communication from the applicant makes it sound like once the regulations are complete, they will resubmit their application; time will tell,” Hohenstein said in a Monday email. Howell Township resident Cory Alchin told Planet Detroit the developers’ decision to withdraw the application is a victory for his many neighbors who oppose the data center. More work is needed to ensure that data center ordinances “protect the health and safety of the township and its residents,” he said. Howell Township resident: ‘We are setting a precedent’ The Howell Township project , from developers Stantec Consulting Michigan Inc. and Randee LLC, was planned for a 1,077-acre site of largely agricultural land north of I-96, roughly 54 miles from Detroit. Stantec spokesperson Trevor Eckart declined to comment when asked whether the developer plans to move forward with the data center when the moratorium ends. Ryan Van Gilder, whose family owns property within the footprint of the data center, did not respond to a request for comment. Hundreds of residents attended a Sept. 23 Howell Township Planning Meeting that lasted for seven hours, with many raising concerns about potential impacts to water resources, electricity costs, and environmental impacts, WDIV reported. Over 3,700 people signed a petition to “Stop the Construction of Michigan’s Largest Data Center in Howell” as of Monday morning. The Howell Township Planning Commission voted not to recommend rezoning land for the project on Sept. 23, and the Livingston County Planning Commission voted against it Nov. 19. The township board has final say over the rezoning decision. Data centers’ often massive water and energy needs have stoked fears in other Michigan communities over how the facilities could harm drinking water wells, pass on costs to other electric ratepayers, and jeopardize state climate goals . The facilities’ electricity demands risk triggering an “off ramp” provision in the state’s climate law, allowing fossil fuel generation to stay online if there’s a capacity shortage. Howell Township Assessor and Deputy Supervisor Brent Kilpela said in a Sept. 4 email to property owner Van Gilder that the project “is like winning the Power Ball for the local municipalities. Roads could be paved etc.” Kilpela previously told Planet Detroit the data center could increase tax revenue by a factor of six or seven. Township resident Alchin said people from 10 communities across the country have been in touch with Howell Township residents, sharing similar experiences of data center developers going into rural townships with ordinances that aren’t well designed and trying to rush through projects, Alchin said. “We are setting a precedent for people to follow and have faith in, across the country,” Alchin said. “The key was that people kept showing up and kept showing up.” 🗳️ What’s next? Tips for civic action Why it matters ⚡ Data centers have large energy and water demands that environmental advocates argue could jeopardize Michigan water resources and state climate goals. Who’s making civic decisions 🏛️ The Howell Township board, which recently passed a six-month data center moratorium. How to take civic action now 📅 Attend an upcoming Howell Township board meeting . The board next meets at 6:30 p.m. Monday, Dec. 8 at the Rod Bushey Performing Arts Center, 1200 W. Grand River Ave., Howell, MI 48843. 📩 Email or call Howell Township’s supervisor, clerk, or treasurer, who serve on the township board. 📣 Ask board members what potential data center regulations may be studied during the township’s six-month moratorium. What to watch for next 🗓️ Any regulations Howell Township may develop for data centers in the months ahead, and a possible resubmission of the developer’s proposal. Civic impact 🌍 Following and weighing in on data center projects in your community can help shape the water and energy impacts these facilities have in the state. ⭐Please let us know what action you took or if you have any additional questions. Please send a quick email to connect@planetdetroit.org. MORE DATA CENTER NEWS DTE Energy says it expects Saline data center approval later this month, has more deals in negotiation DTE has 3 gigawatts of data center deals in late-stage negotiations, the utility says in Friday update. by Dustin Blitchok December 8, 2025 December 8, 2025 Michigan regulators blow past DTE’s data center deadline Michigan regulators announce virtual hearing Dec. 18 on a planned Saline Township data center’s wetland, stream, and floodplain impacts. by Brian Allnutt December 5, 2025 December 5, 2025 ‘Get it right’: Residents urge Michigan regulators not to rush DTE deal for Saline Township data center A virtual hearing on DTE’s plans to power a $7 billion Oracle and OpenAI data center draws commenters worried about power bills, energy reliability, and environmental costs. Gov. Gretchen Whitmer and union representatives stress the project’s economic benefits. by Brian Allnutt December 3, 2025 December 4, 2025 Brian Allnutt Senior Reporter Brian Allnutt is a senior reporter and contributing editor at Planet Detroit. He covers the climate crisis, environmental justice, politics and open space. More by Brian Allnutt