Data centers could reshape landscape in NEPA – Scranton Times-Tribune Skip to content Power lines run through a section of the Archbald off of the Scranton Carbondale Highway Thursday, May 15, 2025. (SEAN MCKEAG / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER) By Frank Lesnefsky | flesnefsky@scrantontimes.com | The Times-Tribune PUBLISHED: May 18, 2025 at 12:00 AM EDT | UPDATED: August 19, 2025 at 6:28 PM EDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... Data centers are coming to Northeast Pennsylvania. In a region once fueled by coal, a new industry aims to reshape Northeast Pennsylvania, tapping into the high-voltage power lines slicing through the valley to fuel sprawling campuses of computer-filled buildings powering artificial intelligence and cloud computing. Because of the sudden surge in data centers, local municipalities do not adequately address them in their zoning, leaving communities scrambling to update their land-use legislation to address the rapidly growing industry. Over the last six months, Lackawanna County — primarily in its Midvalley region — has experienced a burst of interest from developers looking to construct large data center parks, joining Luzerne County where Missouri-based NorthPoint Development plans to construct a 15-building data center campus in Hazle Twp. called “Project Hazelnut,” and where Amazon seeks to operate a data center in Salem Twp. near a nuclear power plant. In Lackawanna County, Archbald has become the hotbed for new data center activity, with three data center campuses proposed for the town, all along the Business Route 6 or Eynon Jermyn Road corridors. Although nothing is official, another developer looks to build a data center in Jessup, and on the southern tier of the county, Clifton Twp. officials are looking to update their zoning in light of a data center proposal. While data centers offer significant tax revenue and high-paying jobs, they could have adverse effects if not properly legislated by municipalities. Local officials are looking to amend their zoning to provide more oversight over data centers and potentially restrict where they can be built, though for some projects, it could be too late. According to the Data Center Coalition, data centers are physical locations that organizations use to house their critical applications and data. “Data centers are the foundation of the digital infrastructure on which our modern society and economy are built,” according to the industry group’s website. “Data centers aggregate our collective computing demands — everything from sharing photos with friends and family to streaming our favorite shows to supporting online learning and storing important medical and financial information — efficiently and securely in one location.” The Data Center Coalition is a membership association for the data center industry, with members including Amazon Web Services, Google, Microsoft and Meta. Power lines span over the Scranton Carbondale Highway in Archbald Thursday, May 15, 2025. (SEAN MCKEAG / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER) Power lines span over the Scranton Carbondale Highway in Archbald Thursday, May 15, 2025. (SEAN MCKEAG / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER) Power lines run through a section of the Archbald off of the Scranton Carbondale Highway Thursday, May 15, 2025. (SEAN MCKEAG / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER) Show Caption 1 of 3 Power lines span over the Scranton Carbondale Highway in Archbald Thursday, May 15, 2025. (SEAN MCKEAG / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER) Expand Why now? Growth in artificial intelligence is the driving factor behind the surge in data centers, said John Augustine, president and CEO of Penn’s Northeast, which is a Pittston-based collective aiming to promote new investments, jobs and business opportunities by promoting Northeast Pennsylvania. “Cloud computing, computer programs themselves, also play a role in data centers, but really, AI is driving this fast-moving train,” he said. Virginia was essentially the birthplace of data centers, but portions of the state put moratoriums in place on new developments because of the amounts of water and power they use, he said. In response, Amazon looked at tapping directly into the Talen Energy nuclear power plant in Salem Twp. for a data center,, Augustine said. Amazon’s data center put Northeast Pennsylvania on the map for new developments, piquing the interest of other major data center firms like Google, Meta and Microsoft, he said. “Amazon was the first and kind of said, ‘Hey, look at this place. They have water, they have land, and most importantly, they have the power,’” Augustine said. But, the online retail giant’s project hit a roadblock when members of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in November opposed Talen Energy’s proposal to increase the amount of power that it would directly supply to Amazon for data centers. Last month, FERC upheld that decision. With multiple natural gas power plants in Northeast Pennsylvania and the ability to draw natural gas from the Marcellus Shale, Augustine believes the region is well suited for data centers. If data centers use natural gas to generate power onsite, they will pay markedly less per kilowatt of power, he said. “We have the second largest natural gas reserve in the world,” he said. “Now it’s time to put it to work for what is literally generational, life-changing opportunities.” In Archbald, borough Manager Dan Markey said borough officials have asked people why their town has so much interest, and the answer is always the same. “We have the trifecta,” he said. “We have the power, we have the fiber (internet), and we have the land.” Archbald now has three proposed data centers. Wildcat Ridge AI Data Center Campus : A 17.2-million-square-foot proposed data center campus spanning nearly 400 mountainside acres along Business Route 6 and Wildcat Road, or Route 247. A firm first approached Archbald during a January council work session touting an estimated $2.1 billion investment. The data center campus would consist of 14 three-story-tall data center buildings, each with a 126,500-square-foot footprint, according to conceptual plans for the project. For that to move forward, Archbald will have to either rezone hundreds of acres of resource conservation and medium/high density residential land, or grant a special data center overlay. Project Gravity : A data center campus that would be built on just over 186 acres between Business Route 6 and the Eynon Jermyn Road, with entrances on both roads. Proposed by New York City-based Western Hospitality Partners, operating as Archbald 25 Developer LLC, Project Gravity would have at least six two-story data center buildings, each with a 135,000-square-foot footprint. The same developer has proposed data centers in Indiana and Illinois. Archbald Data & Energy Center : A project to remove the Highway Auto Parts auto salvage yard on the Eynon Jermyn Road and build three data centers, each under 70 feet tall with a roughly 150,000-square-foot footprint, along with ancillary buildings and structures. Another developer is looking at building data centers in the Jessup area near the Lackawanna Energy Center natural gas-fired power plant, Augustine said. Augustine believes power will be the limiting factor for the Midvalley projects. “Will we necessarily see all four of these proposed (data centers) happen?” he said. “There’s not enough power in Pennsylvania, there’s not enough power on the PJM grid to be able to handle all of the data centers that are looking currently in the region.” The PJM is a regional transmission organization that coordinates the movement of wholesale electricity throughout the eastern United States. However, Augustine noted plans to add more than nine gigawatts of power to Pennsylvania, with seven gigawatts dedicated to the northeast. Impact of data centers Augustine pointed to job creation and “game changing” amounts of tax revenue that could be generated by data centers. Data center campuses will take up to five to seven years to completely build, cr