Northern Data to develop 120MW HPC data center in Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Northern Data to develop 120MW HPC data center in Georgia Data center expected to be operational by Q1 2027 December 05, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Northern Data is to build a new data center in Georgia. The company this week announced plans for an AI and HPC-focused facility located in Maysville, a town in Banks and Jackson counties some 70 miles northeast of Atlanta. Northern Data containers in Lefdal Mine in Norway – Northern Data Design on the facility has already begun, and once complete, the new 63-acre site will deliver 120MW, with capacity to expand to 180MW. The data center is expected to be fully operational in the first quarter of 2027. The company said the site will support high-density and liquid-cooled infrastructure. Aroosh Thillainathan, founder and CEO, Northern Data Group, said: “At Northern Data Group, our data centers are the backbone of the AI and HPC solutions our customers are developing every day. "The new site in Maysville will further expand the compute power and capacity Northern Data Group can offer to our customers, creating more space for innovation while supporting the development of reliable and environmentally sustainable AI and HPC infrastructure in the United States.” Northern Data Group was initially founded as Northern Bitcoin AG in Germany in 2009 and branded itself as a 'green' Bitcoin mining company. In 2019, it merged with Whinstone US, with Thillainathan becoming CEO of the joint company. In 2020, Northern Bitcoin was officially renamed Northern Data Group and moved its focus to HPC. In the summer of 2023 , Northern Data Group split its business into three brands: Taiga Cloud, Ardent Data Centers, and Peak Mining. Ardent operates data centers in Boden , Sweden; and Lefdal and Kristiansand, Norway. The Lefdal site is hosted by Lefdal Mine, and Kristiansand by Bulk. It has acquired and is upgrading a data center in Pittsburgh facility in Pennsylvania. Taiga operates more than 20,000 GPUs, according to the company's most recent quarterly results. Northern's Peak Mining unit is also developing a 30MW crypto site in Grand Forks, North Dakota, and is developing two 300MW sites in Corpus Christi, Texas. Earlier this year, it was reported that Northern Data was looking at an initial public offering (IPO) for both Taiga and Arden, which could be targeting a $10-16 billion valuation. The company reportedly operates a total of 11 data centers. The company recently said it may be looking to divest its crypto mining business. Kim Wilmoth, Maysville City Council Representative, said: “We are excited to have Northern Data expand in the Maysville area. This project is illustrative of the broader business growth in Jackson County positively affecting our city, and the company’s franchise fees for power will be used to support city expenditures. We can’t wait to partner with Northern Data as it advances construction on its data center.” More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 09 Dec 2025 Evolution partners with HTC for data centers in Vietnam Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 24 Feb 2026 Taara launches photonics chip to break bottlenecks with light-based connectivity Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Ardent Data Centers Georgia Maysville Northern Data Northern Data Group Peak Mining Taiga Cloud Comments