Residents demands transparency for $165 billion Santa Teresa data center Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 83 ° Sat 86 ° Sun 88 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY Residents demands transparency for $165 billion Santa Teresa data center by Jordan Salas Wed, September 17, 2025 at 10:45 AM Updated Wed, September 17, 2025 at 10:47 AM A visual where Project Jupiter would be located in Santa Teresa, New Mexico. Dona Ana County officials are hosting a meeting to inform residents about the potential project. (Courtesy of projectjupitertogether.com) Comment on this story 3 Comment Share story Share topics: Transparency Santa Teresa Project Jupiter Data center Doña Ana County Construction jobs Tax exemption Community protest LAS CRUCES, N.M (KFOX14/CBS4) — A coalition of concerned citizens is set to protest on Wednesday at the Doña Ana County Government Center, calling for transparency in the approval process of a massive $165 billion data center project near Santa Teresa. The project, known as Project Jupiter, is backed by Stack Infrastructure and Borderplex Digital and aims to establish an artificial intelligence data center. RECOMMENDED: Doña Ana County hosts community meetings regarding proposed Project Jupiter According to Doña Ana County, the project is expected to create over 2,500 construction jobs and approximately 750 full-time positions. However, the proposal includes a 30-year tax exemption for the company, which has raised concerns among residents about potential water usage and the speed of the project's approval. Arturo Uribe, a concerned citizen and organizer of the coalition, emphasized the need for transparency and a more deliberate approach. "We're not against this project or any project or economic development. We want the jobs, but there's a process that historically we have all recognized and gone through," Uribe said. "It's just mind-blowing the fact that they're doing it so quickly for $165 billion. It just doesn't make sense. And we just want them to respect us and to postpone until we have all this information and agreements." RECOMMENDED: Community rallies against I-10 expansion fearing demolitions and pollution in El Paso The Doña Ana County Commissioners are scheduled to meet on Friday, with Project Jupiter's approval on the agenda. The coalition is urging county leaders to delay their decision until more information is available. Comment with Bubbles READ THE COMMENTS (3) Sign up to receive the top interesting stories from in and around our community once daily to your inbox. Trending VIDEO: Female officer seen punching woman during El Paso retail shop arrest video A tense encounter between El Paso police officers and an individual was seen on a viral video inside a retail shop, showing officers restraining and removing th Three El Paso officers taken to hospital after crash involving two police units El Paso police are investigating a crash involving two police units at an intersection in central El Paso.Copia and Pershing.The El Paso Police Department sai EPWater warns of possible Cement Lake Dam failure, NWS issues flood watch El Paso Water is now warning that conditions at Cement Lake Dam are worsening, prompting the utility to move personnel to higher ground and intensify efforts to Influencer Sam Wags says she donates TikTok earnings to local El Paso groups Ten months after moving to El Paso from Chicago, local TikTok influencer Sam Wags says a single road trip video helped launch a growing social media presence... EPISD: 1 detained after Franklin High School lockdown in West El Paso One person was detained after an incident triggered a lockdown at a high school in West El Paso on Thursday morning. NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 11 Crime Stoppers of El Paso's 'Most Wanted' fugitives for the week of April 25 9 Sunland Park officials: dam breach unlikely to flood homes, but roads may close 6 EPWater: Upper Valley dam must drop 10 feet to prevent overflow; roads stay closed 6 Pedro Infante's granddaughter Lupita Infante to headline Socorro Independence Day show