Meta signs 100MW solar supply deal with Silicon Ranch to power first data center in South Carolina - DCD Home News The Energy & Sustainability Channel Meta signs 100MW solar supply deal with Silicon Ranch to power first data center in South Carolina Project will supply power via the Central Electric Power Cooperative August 19, 2025 By Zachary Skidmore Have your say US solar developer Silicon Ranch has partnered with South Carolina's Central Electric Power Cooperative to develop a 100MW solar farm that will serve Meta’s first data center in South Carolina. – Getty Images Meta’s commitment to purchase the environmental attributes, combined with Central’s offtake, will provide Silicon Ranch with the demand certainty needed to construct the Orangeburg County solar farm. Plans for the data center first surfaced last August . The data center, currently under construction, is located in the Sage Mill Industrial Park near Graniteville, Aiken County. When constructed, it will span 715,000 sq ft (66,425 sqm) and will be optimized for AI workloads. Meta said it will invest approximately $800 million in constructing the facility, with plans for at least two data center buildings. The facility is expected to come online in 2027, with the solar farm slated for operations in the same year. “As Meta progresses construction on our data center in South Carolina, we are pleased to join our new utility partners, Central and Aiken Electric Cooperative, and our long-term trusted partner Silicon Ranch to announce this project together,” said Urvi Parekh, head of Global Energy at Meta. “We’re grateful to Central for supporting our energy goals in South Carolina and thrilled to expand our relationship with Silicon Ranch, which shares our commitment to have a positive impact in the communities where we locate.” Construction of the solar farm is expected to cost more than $100m. Silicon Ranch will fund, build, own, and operate the facility in coordination with the system balancing authority, Santee Cooper. Central Electric will subsequently purchase the facility’s output and serve the Meta data center via Aiken Electric Cooperative, one of its 19 member cooperatives. “Our expanded partnership with Silicon Ranch supports our ability to deliver toward this mission, and we are thrilled to help welcome Meta to South Carolina,” said Rob Hochstetler, president and CEO of Central Electric Power Cooperative. The agreement builds on a previous agreement between Meta and Silicon Ranch, signed back in 2022. The deal saw Meta agree to offtake 720MW of power from seven new solar projects in Georgia and Tennessee. Meta has already signed several renewable supply agreements to power its US operations during 2025. Included were deals in Texas , Ohio , and Kansas , which are a mix of Environmental Attribute Purchase Agreements and Power Purchase Agreements. More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 30 Mar 2026 Mitsui and Hitachi could put data centers on used boats Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Sustainability Global sustainability transformation for mission-critical data centers 24 Nov 2025 xAI to deploy Telsa Megapacks at Colossus II supercomputing site in Memphis, Tennessee Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Aiken County Aiken Electric Cooperative Central Electric Power Cooperative Graniteville Meta Orangeburg County solar farm Sage Mill Industrial Park Santee Cooper Silicon Ranch South Carolina Comments