Wilmington City Council postpones vote on AWS data center in southwest Ohio - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Wilmington City Council postpones vote on AWS data center in southwest Ohio AWS planning a 471-acre campus November 28, 2025 By Georgia Butler Have your say Ohio's Wilmington City Council has postponed voting on a 471-acre data center campus proposed by Amazon Web Services (AWS). During a November 25 meeting, councilors decided to delay voting on the project until December 4 to consider the application and pushback from local residents, reports the Wilmington News Journal . Land around 1588 South US 68 – Google Maps The vote pertains to the approval of Ordinance O-25-73, which would see AWS, the city, and the Clinton County Port Authority agreeing to a 'compensation agreement' for the data center project, including tax exemptions for AWS for up to 30 years. The site is located off the US 68, with its listed address as 1588 South US 68. AWS has said it will invest around $4 billion in developing the site, and will create at least 100 permanent jobs with a total annual payroll of $8bn. It will also invest $25 million in public infrastructure, including sewers, a water main, a water tower, and road improvements. Around 40 residents spoke during the meeting, with many asking the council to reject the deal. Concerns raised included the proximity to homes and schools, noise pollution, and impacts on the water supply. Additionally, with AWS having remained anonymous for much of the process thus far, residents were displeased with the "lack of transparency." Councilors plan to review documents and speak further with the community before voting. Another meeting will be held on December 4, during which the Port Authority will be invited to address questions as well. Wilmington is located to the northeast of Cincinnati. AWS already has a significant presence in Ohio, operating its US East region in the state with three availability zones. Each availability zone has at least one data center, but can have multiple. In late 2024, the company said it would invest $23bn in Ohio by 2030. The company operates data centers across Franklin and Licking counties in Ohio, is planning to build a five-building data center campus in New Albany, and has also expressed an interest in Pickaway County and shared plans to spend $2bn on a data center campus in Sunbury, Ohio . Another campus in Fayette County, Southern Ohio, is also planned by AWS. News of the data centers first surfaced in November last year, with the company acquiring 590 acres in Jefferson Township in August 2025 . Local filings suggest the campus could go live in 2026. This year so far has seen AWS get approval for another campus in Ohio, located in Marysville , and in October 2025 , AWS secured a tax break for a $3bn data center in Sidney, Ohio. Recent reports citing leaked documents suggest that AWS could have more than 900 data centers globally, though AWS does not publicly share this data. More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 16 Jan 2026 Rio Tinto to supply AWS with low-carbon copper for US data centers Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 15 Apr 2026 Lawsuit launched against Musk's xAI over 'illegal' gas turbines at Memphis data center Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags AWS Amazon Web Services Cincinnati Clinton County Ohio Wilmington Comments