Spalding County resident raises alarm about a proposed data center on High Falls Road | News | griffindailynews.com Skip to main content You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email A 2.5 million-square-foot data center is being proposed to be built on approximately 133 acres on High Falls Road. The adjoining large lots outlined in blue and yellow on the map would be combined to make up the 133 acres. SPECIAL PHOTO Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save GRIFFIN — A Spalding County resident is sounding an alarm about a 2,559,500-square-foot data center being proposed to be built on approximately 133 acres on High Falls Road and Alicia Drive. Greg Berns, who lives on the west side of the county, spoke to the Spalding County Board of Commissioners during the Citizen Comment portion of their April 8 meeting. “I have spoken before the commission several times, and you know I am passionate about the county and trying to preserve what it great about living here, while keeping it affordable for everyone,” said Berns. “It was with great disappointment that I read an article last week about plans for a 2.5 million-square-foot data center,” he continued. “Why has there been no public discourse about this? There is already an item on the planning commission agenda to rezone AR-1 on High Falls Road to C-1 for a data center. Spot-zonings, if not illegal, highly questionable…” Berns went on in his comments to state that “It is shocking that the county is even considering an installation that will consume more power and more water than the entire county combined. It will produce noise equivalent to a small airplane and drive anyone within earshot crazy. Surrounding property values will tank and will be gobbled up by the data center for further expansion. “Since the existing grid cannot support such an installation, Georgia Power will have to build more infrastructure and take property by eminent domain to justify it,” continued Berns. “The attraction of tax dollars is obvious. But at what cost? This will be taking the equivalent of a nuclear bomb to that part of the county, sacrificing the people and homes who live within that blast radius.” Berns ended his comments by noting that “It is common strategy for the big data companies to form shell companies that make local governments sign NDA’s (Non-Disclosure Agreements) to avoid public disclosure until it is too late for anyone to do something about it. Just look at Fayette and Coweta. “I am asking all of you to come clean and tell us whether you have already entered in an NDA,” said Berns. “Put a stop to it now.” Development of Regional Impact In his comments, Berns referenced a March 31 article by Dan Swinhoe on The Data Center Construction Channel about Montana Property Group LLC filing a Development of Regional impact (DRI) application with the Georgia Department of Community Affairs (DCA) for a data center campus known as Project Spalding. The Griffin Daily News checked the DCA website and found the DRI Initial Information Form for the project, DRI #4425, listing Montana Property Group LLC as the developer and Alan R. Mobley as the property owner. Mobley, who owns 86.81 acres on High Falls Road and 46.1 acres on Alicia Drive, is set to come before the Spalding County Planning Commission at their April 29 meeting to request rezonings and special exceptions on the two pieces of adjoining property. The rezonings would be from AR-1 (Agricultural-Residential) and R-2 (Single Family Residential) to C-1C (Manufacturing-Light) for a data center. Mobley is also on the Spalding County Board of Commissioners Zoning Public Hearing and Meeting agenda for May 22 for the same rezoning and special exception requests for a data center. The Griffin Daily News also found on the DRI additional information form that the estimated value at buildout is $1.875 billion and the estimated annual local tax revenues (property tax, sales tax) likely to be generated by the proposed development is $26.859 million. It is estimated the build out of the data center would be completed in 2030. Zoning amendments More from this section US Justice Dept to probe its handling of Epstein files +4 Arsenal eye return to top spot, Spurs fight for survival ‘Affordable’ Pittsburgh doesn’t have enough affordable housing – here’s why In December, the Spalding County Board of Commissioners approved the second readings of a text amendment for a zoning definition of data centers, and a text amendment for zoning C-1C (manufacturing light) for permitted uses — Planned Development District (PDD — Industrial Park) for data centers. Community Development Director David Allen explained at the first reading in October that the intent was to introduce the term “data center” to the code. “So we can start to have a dialogue about intelligently locating data centers, with good buffering and architectural standards,” said Allen. “Protecting residential areas is one of the biggest goals.” Allen said the original idea was to have data centers under C-1C zoning as a special exception, but after commission discussion at the first reading, it was changed to make data centers a permitted use in PDD zoning. Among the zoning provisions are data centers: • Shall only be located within a planned commercial or industrial development. • Shall not be located within an S-2, S-3, or S-4 Sensitive Land Protection Districts. • Shall meet all relevant development standards of an Overlay Districts they may be located within, including any Airport Overlay District restrictions. • Exterior walls facing roads or residential properties shall not be all metal and shall consist of 40% stone or masonry facades. • All exterior lighting shall be night-sky friendly. • All mechanical equipment shall be fully screened with opaque fencing, per Section 407. Rooftop equipment shall be screened with parapets. • Minimum building setback for any property line adjacent to residential properties shall be 100 feet for principal data center buildings. Otherwise, 50 feet minimum from all property lines adjacent to non-residential properties. • Power transfer stations, generators and / or other appurtenances associated with data centers shall have a minimum 50-foot-wide buffer between them and adjacent residential properties with evergreen plant material. Buffer plan to be approved by the community development director. • A water service capacity letter shall be provided by the relevant water service authority. • All relevant fire marshal regulation shall apply. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Georgia Press Association Latest e-Edition Griffin Daily News To view our latest e-Edition click the image on the left. Click here to Subscribe! Newsletters - Sign Up Today! Success! An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup. Error! There was an error processing your request. E-Edition Sign up today to have our e-edition delivered to your inbox. News Updates Stay Informed: Sign up for our newsletter so you can receive news updates every publication day. You must select at least one email list. Please enter a valid email address. Sign up Manage your lists Most Popular Articles Images Videos Commented Articles Plan to turn old North Side Elementary School into condos approved by Griffin BOC Kemp appoints McCord as Superior Court judge following Sams' retirement Wellstar Spalding Adds Pediatric Readiness Status to Its ER Capabilities Groundbreaking for new regional airport tentatively set for May 7 Theater Review: Main Street Players keep audiences laughing in latest production Fun flies into Griffin with annual Food Truck Fly-In Griffin boys tennis fueled by mindset, chemistry under coach Jennifer Hill The City of Griffin breaks ground on new downtown playground Spalding County deputy charged with 