RadiusDC looks to build two data centers outside Indianapolis, Indiana - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel RadiusDC looks to build two data centers outside Indianapolis, Indiana Company looks to build two 100,000 sq ft buildings in Plainfield January 06, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say US data center firm RadiusDC is planning a new campus outside Indianapolis, Indiana. As reported by WRTV , the Plainfield plan commission this week unanimously approved a primary plat petition for a data center project. – Google Maps According to Plainfield’s website , Radius Data Centers (via Radiant DC REIT III-B, LLC) is seeking to build two buildings on a combined 31 acres, each totaling 100,835 sq ft (9,368 sqm) on the southeast corner of Smith Road and Allpoints Parkway. The site is currently zoned for office/warehouse uses. DCD has reached out to RadiusDC for more information. Plainfield is a town in Hendricks County, Indiana, on the southwestern outskirts of Indianapolis. The proposals are set to go before the town council next week. A Change.org petition against the proposals has gained a modest 43 signatures at the time of writing, but has been online for less than 24 hours. IPI Partners first launched RadiusDC in 2022 as an Edge firm, focusing on metro markets. IPI was acquired by Blue Owl last year. RadiusDC’s existing footprint includes data centers in Denver, Colorado, and Miami, Florida. The company acquired its Miami facility in August 2024 . It announced plans to expand its 1500 Champa facility in Denver last year. The firm broke ground on a new colocation facility in Nashville, Tennessee, in September , and it acquired the 55 Marietta carrier hotel in Atlanta, Georgia, in December . More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 22 Apr 2026 SK Hynix to invest $12.85bn in advanced packaging plant in Cheongju, South Korea Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 13 Nov 2025 EticaAG launches in-rack immersion cooled battery systems for data centers Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Hendricks County Indiana Indianapolis Plainfield Radiant DC REIT III-B,LLC RadiusDC Comments