Vantage Data Centers and McCarthy Building Companies Celebrate Topping Out of Construction on Phase II of Major Data Center Project in Goodyear, Ariz. - Vantage Data Centers Skip to content DENVER (July 7, 2023) — Vantage Data Centers, a leading global provider of hyperscale data center campuses, and McCarthy Building Companies recently completed the topping out milestone for Phase II at Vantage Data Centers’ major new data center project in Goodyear , hosting a celebratory ceremony yesterday with Goodyear Mayor Joe Pizzillo in attendance. The design-build team is currently constructing the expansion of Phase II of the project, which when fully developed will represent a mega-scale campus expansion offering hyperscalers and large cloud providers 176MW of IT capacity across three facilities totaling more than 1 million square feet. Vantage is investing more than $1.5 billion into the development, which is expected to create approximately 3,000 construction and technology jobs. Phase II of the project is scheduled to be operational in the spring of 2024. “Vantage is excited to celebrate this construction milestone alongside Mayor Pizzillo, the City of Goodyear, Arizona Public Service Company, McCarthy and other special guests,” said Simon Casey, vice president of construction at Vantage Data Centers. “We appreciate the City of Goodyear welcoming us into their community, as well as the investments that the state of Arizona is making into sustainable digital infrastructure. We look forward to our continued collaboration and partnership.” “Phase II of the Vantage Data Centers’ Arizona campus is an exciting expansion within the Bullard Tech Corridor,” stated Mayor Pizzillo. “The presence of data centers in our city serves as a catalyst for economic growth, bringing significant investments and valuable job opportunities. We highly value our partnership with Vantage and appreciate their commitment to both sustainability and the innovative architectural design of the campus within our community.” “We are proud of the progress made to date on Vantage Data Centers’ project by our Mission Critical team and the design-build collaborative partnership,” said Ryan Ferguson, vice president and project executive with the Mission Critical team at McCarthy Building Companies, the general contractor for Phase II of the project. “Thanks to all stakeholders, this project is a leader in sustainable development and a cornerstone of the Bullard Tech Corridor in the West Valley that will serve as a key economic driver for the City of Goodyear.” Many of the Goodyear campus’ features are based on Vantage’s standardized campus blueprint, emphasizing sustainable construction practices. The campus is designed to use virtually no water for cooling, instead employing a closed-loop chilled water system that allows for reduced energy use based on outside ambient temperature. The campus is on track to achieve Green Globe certification. In spring 2023, the Vantage Data Centers expansion received a VPP STAR designation, which is the Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s (OSHA) highest program of safety recognition across all federal OSHA and state OSHA offices. It recognizes employers and workers in private and federal workplaces who have exemplified effective safety and health management systems that achieve injury and illness rates more than 50% below the national average. Key construction design and trade partners on the Phase II expansion include Corgan Architects, Rosendin Electric, Southland Industries and Amfab Steel. About Vantage Data Centers Vantage Data Centers powers, cools, protects and connects the technology of the world’s well-known hyperscalers, cloud providers and large enterprises. Developing and operating across five continents in North America, EMEA and Asia Pacific, Vantage has evolved data center design in innovative ways to deliver dramatic gains in reliability, efficiency and sustainability in flexible environments that can scale as quickly as the market demands. For more information, visit https://vantage-dc.com . About McCarthy Building Companies McCarthy Building Companies, Inc. is the oldest privately held national construction company in the country – with nearly 160 years spent collaborating with partners to solve complex building challenges on behalf of its clients. With an unrelenting focus on safety and a comprehensive quality program that span all phases of every project, McCarthy utilizes industry-leading design phase and construction techniques combined with value-add technology to maximize outcomes. Repeatedly honored as a Best Place to Work and Healthiest Employer, McCarthy is ranked the 19th largest domestic builder ( Engineering News-Record , May 2023). With approximately 6,000 salaried employees and craft professionals, the firm has offices in St. Louis; Atlanta; Collinsville, Ill.; Kansas City, Kan.; Omaha, Neb.; Phoenix; Las Vegas; Denver; Austin, Channelview, Dallas, and Houston, Texas; and San Diego, Newport Beach, Los Angeles, San Francisco, San Jose and Sacramento, Calif. McCarthy is 100 percent employee owned. More information about the company is available online at www.mccarthy.com . ### Press Contacts Mark Freeman Vantage Data Centers [email protected] +1-202-680-4243 Patty Johnson McCarthy Building Companies [email protected] +1-602-402-2965 Ready to answer all your questions. GET STARTED Revoke Consent × Services Rack Ready Whitespace Build-to-Suit Other Services Features Power Cooling Security and Compliance Connectivity Room Design Amenities Sustainability Safety Operational Excellence Locations North America Ashburn I, VA, United States Ashburn II, VA, United States Ashburn III, VA, United States Phoenix, AZ, United States Quincy, WA, United States Santa Clara I, CA, United States Santa Clara II, CA, United States Santa Clara III, CA, United States Montreal I, Canada Montreal II, Canada Montreal III, Canada Quebec City, Canada EMEA Berlin I, Germany Berlin II, Germany Frankfurt I, Germany Frankfurt II, Germany Dublin, Ireland Milan, Italy Warsaw, Poland Johannesburg I, South Africa Johannesburg II, South Africa Zurich I, Switzerland Zurich II, Switzerland Cardiff, United Kingdom London I, United Kingdom London II, United Kingdom APAC Cyberjaya I, Malaysia Cyberjaya II, Malaysia Fo Tan, Hong Kong Kwai Chung, Hong Kong Melbourne, Australia On Lok, Hong Kong Osaka, Japan Taipei, Taiwan All Locations Company Leadership News & Events Careers Contact Us Resources Videos White Papers Data Sheets Reports & Brochures Blog Careers Login English French Get Started