Aligned Data Centers IAD03 | 22715 Relocation Drive, Northern Virginia - datacenterHawk Contact Aligned Data Centers Aligned Data Centers · IAD03 22715 Relocation Drive Sterling, VA United States www.aligneddc.com Aligned Data Centers is planning a new data center in the Northern Virginia market. The data center is designed to meet NIST, SOC 2 and ISO standards. Contact Aligned Data Centers Current status and power pipeline Commissioned This facility has been commissioned. Under Construction There is no leaseable power under construction. Planned There are no plans to add additional leaseable power. Proximity to key digital infrastructure Data Centers Cloud On Ramps Carrier Hotel Details This Location Aligned Data Centers IAD03 Data Center Digital Realty IAD54 0.46 miles +1 Cloud On Ramps AWS Direct Connect Microsoft Azure ExpressRoute Equinix DC21 1.77 miles +1 Cloud On Ramps AWS Direct Connect Google Cloud Equinix DC11 2.07 miles +3 Cloud On Ramps AWS Direct Connect Google Cloud Oracle Cloud Microsoft Azure ExpressRoute Equinix DC6 2.10 miles +2 Carrier Hotel Equinix DC2 2.16 miles Cloud On Ramps AWS Direct Connect Google Cloud Microsoft Azure ExpressRoute 5 mi Location details Building Connectivity Infrastructure Compliance Services Security Building Year Built 2023 Purpose Built or Retrofit Purpose Built Building Size 430,000 SF Building Owner Aligned Data Centers Power On Site Substation No Single or Dual Feed Dual Feed Market Avg Power Cost 6.85 Power Provider Providers POPs Services Coming Soon UPS Generator Cooling 2N SSAE-16 SSAE-18 HIPPAA PCI DIACAP Energy Star ISO FISMA FEDRAMP NIST SOC 1 SOC 2 SOC 3 Uptime Institute MO Site Award Uptime Institute Tier III Constructed Uptime Institute Tier III Design Private Suites Cloud Dedicated Infrastructure SLA 99% CCTV Card Key Access Man Trap Perimeter Fencing Looking for a colocation partner? Find a qualified provider fit for your colocation requirements. Contact Aligned Data Centers Unlock Facility Information Guess less. Make better decisions about data center real estate. Continue with LinkedIn Continue with Email By providing your information, you consent to allow datacenterHawk to store and process the personal information submitted above and agree to our terms and condititions as well as our Privacy Policy By providing your information, you consent to allow datacenterHawk to store and process the personal information submitted above and agree to our terms and condititions as well as our Privacy Policy First Name * Required! Last Name * Required! Company * Required! Work Email * Required! Get Access Continue with LinkedIn By selecting "Get Access" you consent to allow datacenterHawk to store and process the personal information submitted above and agree to our terms and condititions as well as our Privacy Policy By selecting "Get Access" you consent to allow datacenterHawk to store and process the personal information submitted above and agree to our terms and condititions as well as our Privacy Policy Thank you! Your submission has been received Back to site