Lansing, Michigan, sends mixed messages regarding $120m data center - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Lansing, Michigan, sends mixed messages regarding $120m data center Final decision on data center not yet made December 05, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say The Planning Commission of Lansing, Michigan, has approved and rejected different parts of a proposal relating to a $120 million data center backed by UK data center firm Deep Green. According to the Lansing State Journal , on December 2, Commissioners voted in favor of recommending that the city sell land parcels to Deep Green whilst voting against a rezoning request to allow for the construction of a two-story, 25,000 sq ft (2,322 sqm) data center. – Deep Green Planning Commissions typically vote on whether to recommend a course of action, but the decision to approve or deny a request lies with the Lansing City Council. Commissioners had previously voted to delay making a recommendation amid opposition from local residents, who expressed concerns about the impact of a data center on utility rates and the environment. Deep Green intends to build its 24MW facility on a 2.7-acre land parcel between Kalamazoo Street, S. Cedar Street, and S. Larch Street, which is currently home to a city-owned parking lot. It has previously stated that it would partner with the municipally-owned Lansing Board of Water & Light to supply free, carbon-neutral heat directly into the utility. The company, launched in 2023 , is best known for locating its facilities next to properties that can use waste heat, including swimming pools. One of its flagship data centers was deployed next to a leisure center in Exmouth, a town in southern England. More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 24 Mar 2026 In-Q-Tel invests in US data center firm Prometheus Hyperscale Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 30 Mar 2026 Mistral AI raises $830m in debt financing for data center in Paris, France Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach Tags Deep Green Lansing Michigan UK US Comments