Proposed data center in Kosciusko County denied, 550 acres of farmland preserved Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 76 ° Sat 63 ° Sun 68 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY Proposed data center in Kosciusko County denied, 550 acres of farmland preserved by Cicily Porter, WSBT 22 Reporter Wed, April 2, 2025 at 5:17 PM Updated Wed, April 2, 2025 at 8:26 PM 15 VIEW ALL PHOTOS The crowd was scattered with neon hats with the message “No data center.” (WSBT photo) Comment on this story 0 Comment Share story Share topics: Data center Kosciusko County Farmland preservation Rezoning Community opposition Planning commission Signatures NIPSCO substation KOSCIUSKO COUNTY, Ind. (WSBT) — A proposed data center in Kosciusko County was denied. On Wednesday afternoon, the county’s planning commission declined to rezone 550 acres of farmland for a logistics real estate company called Prologis. This was a long and packed meeting that was filled mostly with people who said they didn’t want this data center in Kosciusko County. This was a long and packed meeting that was filled mostly with people who said they didn’t want this data center in Kosciusko County. (WSBT photo) Tensions were high and there were no empty seats. The crowd was scattered with neon hats with the message “No data center.” An overflow of around 100 people were watching from the annex building and more than 350 people were watching it on YouTube. This project received lots of attention, as many said this rezoning would determine the community’s future. This was a long and packed meeting that was filled mostly with people who said they didn’t want this data center in Kosciusko County. (WSBT photo) “We’re gonna lose over 500 acres of really good farmland and there’s a lot of homes up there. There’s a lot of Amish in that area and it’s going to change the farmers and the people who live in that area is lifestyle. And it would be gone and there’s no replacing it once it’s gone it’s gone. The petition filed was to rezone more than 550 acres of farmland, located near the NIPSCO substation near Leesburg to Industrial-3 to construct a data center,” said Lisa Hay, Gary Parker, & Craig Charlton, who are all against the data center. The petitioner, though, said it’s the perfect location. “It has three 45,000 transmission power bolt transmission lines converting on this property that makes it the ideal situation and location for a facility such as this,” said Steve Snyder, petitioner. The petitioner, though, said it’s the perfect location. (WSBT photo) A logistics real estate company called Prologis was looking to build the data center. It was previously never disclosed what company was inerested, but residents said it didn't matter. A petition against the data center was made and collected over a thousand signatures. Those against the project were glad their fight was over, as the room was filled with clapping and cheers “Oh, everyone was clapping and cheering. They were all just ecstatically happy and some of us like me. You were crying because it just is such an emotional thing for me,” said Christina Archer Leesburg Vice President Town Board. Archer is hoping the battle is over for good and hopes to continue preserving the farmland. Trending Federal rescheduling of marijuana products spurs legalization debate in Indiana A major decision from the White House may have local implications.The Justice Department issued an order rescheduling certain marijuana products to a lower drug Fight to get Chicago Bears to Indiana hits setback Indiana's fight to get the Chicago Bears to build a stadium in Hammond suffered a setback.The Illinois House of Representatives passed legislation that might co Bypass reopens after bad crash sends one person to hospital the bypass is back open after a bad crash sent at least one person to the hospital.It happened just after 10:00 last night in the west bound lanes near the Elm South Bend leader calls for data center moratorium Stopping data centers in South Bend before they start -- that's the goal for one South Bend Common Councilman who is proposing a one-year pause on any future pr Elkhart man seriously injured after being thrown from motorcycle An Elkhart man has serious injuries after a crash.. in which he was thrown from his motorcycle.It happened just after 8:00 last night on Suburban Drive.. just NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 3 Two men arrested for soliciting a prostitute in Roseland 5 Salvation Army brings community together with pancake breakfast 4 Goodwill hosts Little Black Dress Fundraiser 4 South Bend leader calls for data center moratorium