York County eyes $500 million data center | fox43.com Breaking News More ( ) » York County $500 million Data Center Could Be Coming to Fairview Township, York County The township Board of Supervisors voted to allow data centers in the site's zoning district. To stream FOX43 on your phone, you need the FOX43 app. Download the FOX43 app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video YORK COUNTY, Pa. — A real estate development firm is attempting to partner with technology companies to build a new data center just north of Lewisberry Road in Fairview Township, York County, a project that could bring millions of dollars in tax revenue to the town. The Fairview Township Board of Supervisors on Monday approved the use of data centers in certain zoning districts, including the commercial business district where the 82-acre site is located. “This whole artificial intelligence issue is a big issue,” said Kevin Brown, a partner at Elysian Partners development firm, which is developing the land. “Operators are looking for locations where they can increase their infrastructure. Because we could get the power infrastructure here, we were able to pursue a data center as a use.” The land has been zoned for commercial use but never developed. A previous attempt to build a warehouse in the area was defeated. Brown says the location is ideal for a data center due to its proximity to high-voltage power lines, public water and sewer service, high-speed fiber optics and distance from local residents. “Power is the most important thing in this business,” he said. “We’re up against the turnpike, we’re near I-83 and we’re over 400 feet from the nearest residential neighbor. The impact is minimal.” If built, the data center would generate an estimated $500 million in private investment and potentially shift the property’s tax assessment from $226,000 to $226 million, according to Brown. He says annual tax revenues for the town and other benefactors would increase dramatically “Fairview Township currently gets $396 in tax revenue a year,” Brown said. “They would go to $396,000. The fire department gets $52. They would go to $52,000. The school district gets just a few bucks over $4,000, and they would go to $4,066,000 in the annual tax bill from the site.” A grant from PennDOT would help fund the refurbishment of Lewisberry Road, which would be necessary to access the site. The project comes as south-central Pennsylvania is becoming a hub for data centers. A $6 billion center is being proposed for Lancaster City, while a $5 billion center is set for York County near Delta. Questions have risen over what the new centers will mean for electricity usage, with energy advocates saying the mere anticipation of the centers have already raised power bills this year. “We expect to see monthly bills go up by potentially 5% starting next June, and a key driver of that increased utility cost is coming from the anticipated load growth from data centers,” said Robert Routh of the Natural Resources Defense Council. “There was more than five gigawatts of increased electric demand that PJM forecasted coming from data centers compared to last year Brown says interest is strong among tech companies to partner with his firm for the data center. “This is a good project in a good location,” Brown said. “You get low impact. You get a good industrial tax base [and] commercial tax base, and that will help balance out all the different needs in that local community.” The next steps for the project include a conditional use approval process and land development planning. Related Articles Amazon to spend $20B on data centers in Pennsylvania, including one next to a nuclear power plant Billions in AI investment announced throughout Pennsylvania, including Lancaster, York counties New details revealed about planned $6 billion AI data center in Lancaster Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out