Oppidan data center outside Minneapolis rejected - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Oppidan data center outside Minneapolis rejected Brings end to year-long application process March 30, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say A data center proposed by Oppidan outside Minneapolis has been rejected by the city's local authority. The company's proposal to build five data center buildings totaling 1.05 million sq ft (98,000 sqm) across 134 acres of land in the city of Apple Valley was denied by the city council on Thursday, March 26. – Oppidan and Rockport LLC The council voted against approving a site plan, a preliminary plan, and a conditional use permit for the campus, in line with the planning commission’s recommendation the week prior. The Apple Valley Technology Park would have offered 250MW-300MW of capacity. The property development firm had proposed the construction of the data center in February 2025 in conjunction with Rockport LLC, the owner of the site located between Flagstaff Avenue, 150th Street, and Pilot Knob Road. But the pair have encountered difficulties when it came to securing permission, failing to secure approval for a comprehensive plan amendment this January, and Oppidan actually withdrew its rezoning application for the land parcel earlier this month. Oppidan is a Minnesota-based real estate firm that has been developing data centers since 2016. It is currently building a 61,000 sq ft (5,667 sqm) data center in Eagan, located between Apple Valley and downtown Minneapolis. Oppidan also has data center projects in Chicago , Illinois; Reno , Nevada; Temple , Texas; and Albuquerque , New Mexico. Apple Valley is located south of Minneapolis, Minnesota's largest data center hub. More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 06 Jan 2026 CFS partners with Nvidia, Siemens to build AI digital twin for SPARC fusion reactor Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 03 Mar 2026 Hochtief breaks ground on latest Yaxio Edge data center in Dorfen, Germany Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era Tags 150th Street Apple Valley Apple Valley Technology Park Flagstaff Avenue Minneapolis Minnesota Pilot Knob Road Rockport LLC Comments