Hyperscale Data purchases 48.5 acres in southwest Michigan to expand data center campus - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Hyperscale Data purchases 48.5 acres in southwest Michigan to expand data center campus Purchase more than doubles company’s acreage in the area March 31, 2026 By Charlotte Trueman Have your say Hyperscale Data Inc. subsidiary Alliance Cloud Services (ACS) has acquired around 48.5 acres of land in southwest Michigan, more than doubling the company’s acreage in the area and bringing the total owned by the company to 83 acres. The deal is expected to close within the next 60 days, with Hyperscale planning to divest the ACS subsidiary in the first quarter of 2027. Hyperscale's existing Michigan data center campus – BitNile The company already owns a data center in Michigan, located on a 34.5-acre site at 415 East Prairie Ronde Street, Dowagiac. The data center was acquired in May 2022 and spans 617,000 sq ft (57,320 sqm). Built in 1972 as a manufacturing space, Hyperscale is repurposing part of the site from Bitcoin mining to HPC and colocation. As of early 2025, the data center offered 28MW of IT capacity, but in February of that same year, Hyperscale said it had plans to expand this to 340MW . The first installation of Nvidia GPUs at the site occurred in March 2025 , although the number and type of GPUs deployed were not disclosed. In a statement announcing the land acquisition, Hyperscale said the purchase provides it with the opportunity to expand its existing Michigan campus and “continue to address the surging demand for AI and high-performance computing.” Will Horne, CEO of Hyperscale, added: "This is a significant step in the right direction for ACS on its path to expanding its footprint in the Michigan area. This land acquisition will give us additional space and the opportunity for future development and demonstrates the Company's long-term commitment to Southwest Michigan and the Company's operations there." Hyperscale (formerly Ault Alliance) was a diversified holding company that invested in oil exploration, crane services, defense/aerospace, industrial, bitcoin mining, automotive, medical/biopharma, consumer electronics, hotel operations, and textiles. In 2024, it announced a full pivot towards AI and data centers and changed its name. The company plans to divest all its non-data center assets, and Hyperscale Data is now majority-owned by Ault & Company, Inc. In addition to the Michigan facility, Hyperscale also has a data center in Montana, and broke ground on a 20MW facility in the state in 2023 . More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 13 Nov 2025 Cerebras signs MoU for 100MW data center in Guyana Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 10 Dec 2025 AT&T CEO drops physics lesson on SpaceX’s Starlink mobile aspirations Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 415 East Prairie Ronde Street Alliance Cloud Services Ault Alliance Hyperscale Data Inc Michigan Will Horne Comments