Opponents push back against data center development at Blakely meeting Skip to content A crowd of concerned Blakely residents fills the Blakely Borough Building during a question-and-answer session at the Blakely Borough Building on Wednesday, Aug. 13, 2025. (FRANK WILKES LESNEFSKY / STAFF PHOTO) By Frank Lesnefsky | flesnefsky@scrantontimes.com | The Times-Tribune PUBLISHED: August 13, 2025 at 10:50 PM EDT | UPDATED: August 19, 2025 at 6:20 PM EDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... BLAKELY — A developer pitched the potential benefits of data centers to a defiant crowd of borough residents Wednesday night and received significant pushback against a proposal to rezone residential land off Business Route 6 and Terrace Drive to allow for the construction of four data centers. About 100 residents packed the Blakely Borough Building’s council chambers — with around 60 more waiting outside and 210-plus watching online via Zoom — for a question-and-answer session with Jim Marzolino, the developer behind three Midvalley data center proposals. Although he did not speak during the meeting, Marzolino’s co-developer on the project, Alpesh “Al” Patel of the Dunmore-based Al’s Quick Stop convenience store chain, attended the session, accompanied by former state Sen. Robert Mellow. Marzolino, who is the president of Kriger Construction, and Patel own the land for the proposed data centers. The borough scheduled the question-and-answer session during council’s monthly work session after attorney Michael Mey, who Marzolino said is also a partner on the project, approached the Blakely Planning Commission on Aug. 4 looking to rezone land below Business Route 6 and off Terrace Drive from low-density residential — Blakely’s strictest zoning district — to a commercial zone to allow for the construction of four two-story data centers, each roughly 150,000 square feet. Borough council will hold a public hearing Aug. 26 at 6 p.m. at the Sacred Heart of Jesus Church, 1101 Willow St., Peckville, to decide whether to rezone the land. Bob Cicci of Peckville poses with his truck full of “No Data Center” signs on Wednesday, Aug. 13, 2025, in Peckville prior to the borough’s data center meeting. Cicci, of Snyder Granite Company in Peckville, sold the signs at cost for $6 each. The nearly three-hour-long meeting came on the heels of a state Senate Majority Policy Committee hearing on data centers at Valley View High School on Monday. Marzolino touted the benefits of the project, noting significant financial revenue for communities, job creation and less disruption compared to a housing development he previously received zoning relief for on the land . The raucous crowd often vocalized their opposition of the project. Nearly two dozen speakers voiced concerns and criticisms. Outbursts from the crowd occasionally required borough solicitor Edwin Abrahamsen to step in and maintain order. Blakely now has at least the sixth data center proposal in Lackawanna County and the fifth in the Midvalley, with three data center projects proposed in Archbald and one in Jessup . There is also a campus with up to 30 buildings proposed for the North Pocono area in Clifton and Covington townships . Marzolino is involved with two of Archbald’s three proposals. Borough Manager Chris Paone opened the meeting by telling the crowd about the upcoming public hearing and that the borough was only informed of the proposal July 24. “The borough is trying to move as quickly as possible in order to get this information to all of our residents,” Paone said. ‘Highest economic benefit’ Marzolino began with a presentation providing an overview of the project. “(There are) a lot of misconceptions on these developments and what they consist of, so we’re going to hope to inform everybody tonight, and then obviously take all questions,” he said. He later added, “We’re hoping to get feedback from you guys as well and continue to amend what would be a final proposal that you guys would be receptive of.” Data center developer Jim Marzolino presents plans on his data centers in Blakely during a question-and-answer session at the Blakely Borough Building on Wednesday, Aug. 13, 2025. (FRANK WILKES LESNEFSKY / STAFF PHOTO) Marzolino pointed to his involvement with Archbald data centers, with three buildings proposed on 84 acres at the Highway Auto Parts junkyard on the Eynon Jermyn Road and six more data center buildings proposed on 188 acres between Business Route 6 and the Eynon Jermyn Road extending to near the Jermyn border by the Valley View Estates mobile home park. He said there is more than a year of engineering into the work, and he has a team of 20 to 40 people working on it daily. “We do believe this is the highest economic benefit for your community, with the least amount of impact,” he said. He noted that on the opposite side of Business Route 6 from his proposal in Blakely, another developer is seeking zoning approval in Archbald to build 14 three-story-tall data centers. For that project, a developer wants to build a sprawling 17.2-million-square-foot Wildcat Ridge AI Data Center Campus on a mix of resource conservation land and medium/high destiny residential housing zoning. “Archbald would receive all of the benefit from it,” Marzolino said. Marzolino told the crowd his Blakely data center would span 209 acres with 586,000 square feet total of buildings, each under 70 feet tall, with about 60 acres or 2.7 million square feet of vegetation and woods left intact around the property. The facility would adhere to current noise standards, and it would have building setbacks of 550 feet to 1,000 feet from any residential property, he said. Construction of the buildings would create about 500 construction jobs continuously for two to four years, followed by creating high-paying jobs in the data centers and providing significant school and county property taxes, Marzolino said. An aerial view shows land behind the Peckville Assembly of God on Route 6 in Blakely Borough on Wednesday, Aug. 6, 2025. A developer proposed to build data centers on the land. (SEAN MCKEAG / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER) Blakely does not have municipal property taxes, instead relying on funds from operating its own electrical distribution company. In lieu of borough property taxes, Marzolino said the borough would receive an impact fee of $4 million to $6 million annually for at least 20 years, which his company would initially pay before transferring the payments to the future data center operator. Paone later raised concerns of the legal battle facing the borough if the operator of the data centers decides to stop paying the impact fee. The data centers would be powered by PPL Electric Utilities and connect to a nearby substation via the high-tension power lines near the site; the utility company committed to providing the data centers with 1.5 gigawatts of power, Marzolino said. The project would use the equivalent of two to three car wash businesses worth of water supplied by Pennsylvania American Water, with less sewage than a residential development, he said. In September 2023, Marzolino received variances in Blakely to build up to 40 single-family homes plus townhouses on the land , but on Wednesday, he said residential development wasn’t feasible and would have more of an impact than the data centers by extending borough roads and requiring more maintenance from the town, adding traffic and wiping out the trees he wants to use as a buffer around the project. The project would also remediate a former unlined municipal landfill, he said. Citing testimony during Monday’s state Senate hearing from PPL President Christine M. Martin, Paone said PPL currently has a peak of 7.5 gigawatts with 14.4 gigawatts in proposals from data centers. “On the PJM grid, there is not enough generation to supply the peak that is currently there,” Paone said. “This data center and other data centers very well could impact power in this area because of the short