Piqua Commission hears plans for new data center - Miami Valley Today Facebook X E-Edition Logout Sign In Subscribe MyAccount Newsletter Signup Manage Preferences Link My Account News Sign Up for Our Newsletter Archive Sports Obituaries Opinion Submit a Letter to the Editor Letters Columns Jobs Classifieds Classified Ads Public Notices Businesses More Ask the Expert Special Sections Calendar Digital Advertising Contact Us Search Miami Valley Today News, Sports, Obituaries, Classifieds, Events and more E-Edition Logout Sign In Subscribe MyAccount Newsletter Signup Manage Preferences Link My Account Miami Valley Today News, Sports, Obituaries, Classifieds, Events and more News Sign Up for Our Newsletter Archive Sports Obituaries Opinion Submit a Letter to the Editor Letters Columns Jobs Classifieds Classified Ads Public Notices Businesses More Ask the Expert Special Sections Calendar Digital Advertising Contact Us Home News Piqua Commission hears plans for new data center News A map of the area where the new Piqua data center will be built is shown in an image that was part of a presentation that was shown to those in attendance at the Piqua Commission meeting on Monday, Nov. 3. Image courtesy of the City of Piqua By Kathleen Leesse For Miami Valley Today Editor’s note: This is the first of two articles about a new Data Center that was approved by the Piqua Commission on Monday, Nov. 3, after a contentious meeting between the commission and residents. The second in the series, with the residents’ concerns and reaction to the project, will appear online and in the Wednesday edition of Miami Valley Today. PIQUA — On Monday evening, during a meeting that lasted over four hours, a large crowd listened as Piqua Economic Development Director Chris Schmiesing introduced plans for a new data center that will reportedly provide a $1 billion investment for the City of Piqua and will be located in Piqua at the I-75 Exit 78 Business and Industrial Park at the intersection of Farrington and Washington Roads. Officials for the city noted there have been meetings regarding the data center since July 2024. Schmiesing said there were “no less than eight public hearings and zoning items were discussed before being approved, and I would note there were three developer interests involved in advancing the development of this tract.” City of Piqua officials explained that the identity of the company constructing the data center is unknown due to a Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA). Piqua City Manager Paul Oberdorfer stated he did not know who the company is, and Piqua Commissioners, including Mayor Kris Lee, stated they never signed an NDA. None of them identified the company planning the data center construction, either, in spite of questions from residents in attendance. City officials said that the announcement of the company name would be released by the company at the appropriate time. The new project location is under the control of Piqua Land Company, is reportedly not associated with the city of Piqua as well as Piqua Materials and Bruns Upper Valley Development. It is located on 1,168 acres of land, which is in a heavy industry zoning area and is located within the municipal corporation limits. The area is being developed for research and technology, and advanced manufacturing. Local incentives include Community Reinvestment Area (CRA), Tax Increment Financing (TIF), and an Opportunity Zone (OZ). There will be more than 1,000 workers during peak construction, and several hundred local service provider employees will be contracted by the company annually. Once the construction is complete, there will be 50 full-time employees between the two facilities who will earn over $100,000 per year plus benefits. There will be $1 billion in fixed assets investment and $78 million in infrastructure investment by the company, and there will be annual community action grants to eligible local non-profit agencies. The economic impact will include the construction impact with $864 million in Gross Economic Output (GEO); $206 million in contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and an annual operational impact that includes $63 million in GEO and $13 million in contributions to the GDP. Other impacts will include power system infrastructure improvements, as well as construction power revenue that will benefit General and Power Funds. Operations power will be provided by AES and will include transmission grid infrastructure improvements, and the company will pay the applicable transmission rate. There will also be water system infrastructure improvements and wastewater system infrastructure improvements. The company will pay the same rate as any other large-volume customer. There will also be excess system capacity available for future development. There will be a 15-year, 100% tax exemption on improvements valuation tax increase for the buildings only; tax entities will continue to receive current land and improvements valuation taxes with no decrease in revenue. The schools and city of Piqua each receive payment in lieu of taxes (PILOT) during the abatement period on each data center building. It was noted that the TIF is a four-part agreement between the developer, which Schmiesing said should be referred to as the “project,” the city of Piqua, Piqua City Schools (PCS) Board of Education, and the Upper Valley Career Center (UVCC). The PCS Board of Education and the UVCC Board have both passed resolutions of support for the data center project, according to Schmiesing. Schmiesing noted that there will be a “significant” financial benefit to both PCS and UVCC as a result of the project. “The TIF will also increase valuations that will not affect their formula funding. He explained it will “not result in a negative hit” on the formula funding from the state of Ohio. “That is a good thing.” Schmiesing said, “There is a significant amount of income tax that will be generated from the construction activity. There will be a continuing tax revenue that will be generated by the FTE’s (full-time employees). There’s a significant amount of indirect economic impact that will result from other businesses in the community that will supply goods and services during and after construction. There is the ongoing participation in the community from the company and their support…most importantly, their investment in the community, their $1 billion dollar investment.” The (PILOT) payment to the city of Piqua would be approximately $735,000 per year per building during the abatement period. There are two buildings planned currently for the data center that will be 350 square feet each. There will be overlapping construction phases over a period of three to five years. The city of Piqua will receive the property and have ownership of it, and can use it and add on to it, and do not need to have the permission of the data center owners to develop it. Piqua Commissioner Frank DeBrosse asked if it was true that the city would be paying $78 million as part of the construction of the data center. Schmiesing explained that would not be the case, and the Project would be paying for all of those expenses. “The city is not responsible for any of the cost.” DeBrosse then asked who pays for the infrastructure improvements necessary for the building of the data center, such as water, sewer, and roadway construction, since those are not currently available at the location. Schmiesing said the developer, known as the Project, “will be the ones footing the bill” for those infrastructure improvements. Once completed, Schmiesing said, “The city owns that property. We own it and control it and can use it both for the benefit of that project and the surrounding properties. The permission of the project will not be necessary for further development of the area.” Piqua Utilities Director Kevin Krejny spoke about the capacity of the water plant and how that impacts the City of Piqua water supply for residents and busi