Hello, Bowling Green! - Meta Data Centers Hello, Bowling Green! April 9, 2025 Ohio - Bowling Green Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share in Email Middleton Township, Ohio, will be home to the newest Meta-owned and operated data center — our 24th data center in the United States and 28th in the world. This 715,000-square-foot campus will be part of the highly advanced infrastructure that helps bring Meta technologies to life. Once completed, the Bowling Green Data Center will represent an investment of more than $800 million and support approximately 100 jobs. Meta anticipates that more than 1,000 construction workers will be onsite at the peak of construction. Job opportunities for the data center will be on Meta Careers in a few weeks. For construction information, please check the JE Dunn Construction website . Middleton Township stood out as an outstanding location for Meta to call home for a number of reasons. It provides good access to infrastructure and renewable energy, it has a strong pool of talent, and the company has found a great set of community partners that have helped us move this project forward. Meta is excited to be a new member of the Wood County community and is committed to investing in its long-term vitality. Once the data center is operational, Meta will launch the Data Center Community Action Grants program, where Meta partners with local schools and organizations to help put the power of technology to use for community benefit, build strong, sustainable communities and improve STEAM education. The company is also proud to bring programs to Ohio that help local small businesses and nonprofits grow their reach, such as the no-cost digital skills training. Meta custom designs and builds industry-leading infrastructure at scale, and prioritizes efficiency, flexibility and sustainability. We’re building the future of human connection and once operational, the Bowling Green Data Center will be optimized for our AI workloads, giving people new ways to connect, find communities and grow their businesses. Meta wants to be a positive contributor in communities like Wood County, and that includes investing in clean and renewable energy. Meta has worked closely with the Toledo Edison Company from the beginning to plan for their energy needs and will work with developer partners to match this data center’s electricity use with 100% clean and renewable energy. Our operational data center buildings achieve LEED® Gold certification by focusing on efficiency, sustainability and innovation. We are proud to work alongside JobsOhio, Regional Growth Partnership, the Wood County Board of County Commissioners, Wood County Economic Development Commission, Toledo Edison Company, JE Dunn Construction, and many other local partners to bring this project to life. Meta is thrilled to join the Wood County community and look forward to having a strong partnership for years to come. Learn more about the break ground Spotlight stories Stay up-to-date on all the news from Meta Data Centers. View more Arizona – Mesa Mesa, we are online! Meta is excited to announce that the Mesa Data Center is now serving traffic. That… Read article : Mesa, we are online! Louisiana – Richland Parish Hello, Louisiana! Richland Parish, Louisiana, will be home to the newest Meta owned and operated data center… Read article : Hello, Louisiana! Tennessee – Gallatin Gallatin, we are online! Meta is thrilled to announce that the Gallatin Data Center is now serving traffic. That… Read article : Gallatin, we are online! To help personalize content, tailor and measure ads and provide a safer experience, we use cookies. By clicking or navigating the site, you agree to allow our collection of information on and off Meta through cookies. Learn more, including about available controls: Cookie Policy Accept