Fargo withdraws annexation attempts of $3 billion AI data center near Harwood - InForum | Fargo, Moorhead and West Fargo news, weather and sports Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Saturday, April 25 Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Fargo Fargo withdraws annexation attempts of $3 billion AI data center near Harwood The move ends the monthslong fight between the two cities over the 280-megawatt facility. Construction workers build the Applied Digital data center on Monday, Nov. 10, 2025, north of Fargo. Chris Flynn / The Forum By April Baumgarten December 08, 2025 at 7:49 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? FARGO — Fargo will stop its efforts to annex a $3 billion artificial intelligence data center without placing conditions on the small city that approved the proposed new business. The Fargo City Commission unanimously voted Monday, Dec. 8, to cancel its annexation of roughly 300 acres near the North Softball Complex. The land north of the city includes a 280-megawatt AI data center. The move ends a fight between Fargo and Harwood, N.D., a city of almost 800 residents that is 5 miles north of Fargo. ADVERTISEMENT Harwood plans to annex that land, said Jim Gilmour, director of strategic planning and research for Fargo. Fargo Mayor Tim Mahoney said the city wants to be able to sit down with Harwood leaders to discuss infrastructure issues. “We feel in some ways probably the only way we can get everybody to sit down and visit is to just withdraw the annexation,” Mahoney told The Forum. Applied Digital has proposed a $3 billion data center be constructed just southeast of the town of Harwood, North Dakota. Map by The Forum Harwood Mayor Blake Hankey told The Forum he was happy about the development. “We think that’s the right thing to do,” he said. “It’s rectifying what we consider the wrong that was done, and hopefully that’s the first step toward both communities working together as both communities continue to grow. 'Get us to the table' Harwood fought the annexation process that began in early August, seeing it as Fargo’s attempt to take property tax income from the AI data center. Texas-based Applied Digital announced the massive project in mid-August, saying it would be built within Harwood’s extraterritorial zone. That meant Harwood had the authority to approve the center, which it did in September. Construction crews broke ground shortly after, and Applied Digital hopes to open the facility in early 2027. ADVERTISEMENT Columns Mahoney: A path forward for Fargo and Harwood Fargo Mayor Dr. Tim Mahoney writes in response to recent turmoil over the future home of the Applied Digital data center. Dec 6, 2025 · By Fargo Mayor Dr. Tim Mahoney Applied Digital initially planned to build part of the project in Fargo’s extraterritorial zone, Mahoney said. The company moved the project west out of Fargo’s jurisdiction after city leaders proposed charging Applied Digital millions of dollars in franchise fees, according to the Texas operator. The fees would have been used to pay for infrastructure needs caused by the project, Mahoney said. All electricity users within city limits pay a franchise fee, Fargo Finance Director Susan Thompson said. “Xcel (Energy) and Cass County Electric pass the fee on to the customers via a line item on the electricity bill identified as city fee," she said. "Xcel and CCE collect the fee and remit to the city monthly.” The Fargo City Commission voted to start the process of annexing land that is depicted in the sections labeled A, B and C, while deannexing Section D. Section B is where Applied Digital is building a $3 billion artificial intelligence data center, but Harwood has opposed that annexation. Contributed / City of Fargo The center will use 20% of electricity produced in North Dakota, Mahoney said. Fargo started the annexation process as a way to “get us to the table” for negotiations with Harwood and Applied Digital, Mahoney said. He said he had concerns about who would maintain the roads, how the center would get access to water and electricity, and if Fargo's emergency responders would have to answer calls for service to the data center. “That wasn’t an ‘Imperial Cass,’ issue,” Mahoney said, referring to a derogatory term for Fargo. “That was just, ‘How can we sit down and talk?” Applied Digital said it would pay for damage it caused to nearby roads. Harwood has a fire department, and the Cass County Sheriff's Office typically responds to calls for service in and near the city. ADVERTISEMENT The company and Harwood declined to work with Fargo until the large city withdrew its annexation. Hankey has called Fargo's tactics "underhanded." Fargo drafted a 20-year agreement that would bar any annexation efforts of the data center by the city. In exchange, it required Harwood to not annex land east of Applied Digital for two decades. The Harwood City Council unanimously rejected the offer last month, demanding Fargo withdraw the annexation without putting conditions on the community. 1 / 13: A set of text messages between Harwood Mayor Blake Hankey and Fargo Mayor Tim Mahoney shows discussions about Fargo annexing an artificial intelligence data center. Contributed / City of Harwood 2 / 13: A set of text messages between Harwood Mayor Blake Hankey and Fargo Mayor Tim Mahoney shows discussions about Fargo annexing an artificial intelligence data center. Contributed / City of Harwood 3 / 13: A set of text messages between Harwood Mayor Blake Hankey and Fargo Mayor Tim Mahoney shows discussions about Fargo annexing an artificial intelligence data center. Contributed / City of Harwood 4 / 13: A set of text messages between Harwood Mayor Blake Hankey and Fargo Mayor Tim Mahoney shows discussions about Fargo annexing an artificial intelligence data center. Contributed / City of Harwood 5 / 13: A set of text messages between Harwood Mayor Blake Hankey and Fargo Mayor Tim Mahoney shows discussions about Fargo annexing an artificial intelligence data center. Contributed / City of Harwood 6 / 13: A set of text messages between Harwood Mayor Blake Hankey and Fargo Mayor Tim Mahoney shows discussions about Fargo annexing an artificial intelligence data center. Contributed / City of Harwood 7 / 13: A set of text messages between Harwood Mayor Blake Hankey and Fargo Mayor Tim Mahoney shows discussions about Fargo annexing an artificial intelligence data center. Contributed / City of Harwood 8 / 13: A set of text messages between Harwood Mayor Blake Hankey and Fargo Mayor Tim Mahoney shows discussions about Fargo annexing an artificial intelligence data center. Contributed / City of Harwood 9 / 13: A set of text messages between Harwood Mayor Blake Hankey and Fargo Mayor Tim Mahoney shows discussions about Fargo annexing an artificial intelligence data center. Contributed / City of Harwood 10 / 13: A set of text messages between Harwood Mayor Blake Hankey and Fargo Mayor Tim Mahoney shows discussions about Fargo annexing an artificial intelligence data center. Contributed / City of Harwood 11 / 13: A set of text messages between Harwood Mayor Blake Hankey and Fargo Mayor Tim Mahoney shows discussions about Fargo annexing an artificial intelligence data center. Contributed / City of Harwood 12 / 13: A set of text messages between Harwood Mayor Blake Hankey and Fargo Mayor Tim Mahoney shows discussions about Fargo annexing an artificial intelligence data center. Contributed / City of Harwood 13 / 13: A set of text messages between Harwood Mayor Blake Hankey and Fargo Mayor Tim Mahoney shows discussions about 