Blue Energy and Crusoe partner to develop advanced nuclear-powered AI data center project in Port of Victoria Texas October 30, 2025 Blue Energy and Crusoe partner to develop advanced nuclear-powered AI data center project in Port of Victoria Texas Crusoe and Blue Energy unveil a nuclear-powered AI factory campus in Texas. A gas-to-nuclear conversion delivers reliable, clean power and rapid speed-to-market. No items found. November 21, 2025 Table of contents This is some text inside of a div block. Share: North Bethesda, MD – Blue Energy and Crusoe today announced a strategic partnership to develop a nuclear-powered data center campus located in the Port of Victoria, Texas. Under the agreement, Blue Energy secured a site to design, develop, and operate an advanced nuclear power plant of up to 1.5 gigawatts (GW), delivering affordable, reliable power to Crusoe-developed artificial intelligence (AI) factories on a nearby secured site. Blue Energy is reinventing how new nuclear power plants are financed and built, slashing time to power to just 36 months or less with a natural gas bridge. To support Crusoe’s unique ability to rapidly build large-scale AI infrastructure projects, Blue Energy will deliver the world's first gas-to-nuclear conversion – supplying power to a Crusoe-developed AI factory campus as early as 2028, transitioning to expected nuclear generation by 2031. The 1,600-acre Crusoe campus, in Victoria County, was chosen for its location, existing infrastructure, and available energy resources to support a gigawatt-scale AI factory campus. The site is in proximity to existing and planned transmission lines and fiber optic networks and offers unparalleled access to one of the nation’s largest natural gas pipeline systems. “This partnership with AI infrastructure leader Crusoe marks a key milestone for Blue Energy as we work to meet rising global energy demand and, for the first time in the nuclear industry's history, build a plant with cost and schedule certainty,” said Jake Jurewicz, Blue Energy Co-Founder and CEO. “We’re proud to be working with Port of Victoria leaders to establish our footprint in Texas and look forward to engaging with local and regional partners, including the City of Victoria and nearby Bloomington, as we take steps to build the world’s first project-financed nuclear power plant.” “Powering the AI revolution requires us to rethink energy, and Crusoe is dedicated to building the infrastructure to make it happen – infrastructure that demands access to abundant, reliable, and clean power. Blue Energy’s gas-to-nuclear approach delivers exactly what we need: unrivaled speed to market using existing fuel sources, combined with a clear, rapid transition to the massive, carbon-free baseload power that only nuclear power can provide. This partnership demonstrates how we’re building the future of AI sustainably and at scale,” said Andrew Likens, Crusoe Vice President of Energy Infrastructure & Development. ‍ “The Blue Energy-Crusoe partnership means jobs and increased school funding for Texas's 27th congressional district. It strengthens America's energy independence and positions our nation to lead in exporting nuclear technology to meet the world's rapidly increasing energy demand,” said U.S. Representative Michael Cloud. ‍ “We are thrilled Blue Energy and Crusoe are taking a major step forward in energy innovation and economic development for our region. The project will support a stronger and more resilient power grid and bring long-term investment and high-quality jobs and workforce development to the Texas Logistics Center,” said Port of Victoria Executive Director Sean Stibich. Background on Blue Energy’s design As artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing drive unprecedented global energy demand, Blue Energy is meeting the moment with a bold new approach: building the world’s first project-financed nuclear power plant. By combining proven nuclear technology with its innovative power plant design that leverages techniques from the offshore oil and gas, LNG, and wind sectors, Blue Energy is redefining how nuclear power is built – unleashing a new era of American energy abundance and scaling nuclear power in less than a decade. Nuclear’s problem is not reactor technology. It’s how we’ve been building the plant. Blue Energy’s design solves that problem. Our plant design cuts construction costs and timelines, slashes time to power to 36 months or less with a natural gas bridge, and makes nuclear power competitive with fossil fuels and renewables. Using existing shipyards and American manufacturing muscle, Blue Energy will prefabricate nuclear plants from existing parts – cutting costs, reducing supply chain and labor procurement delays, enabling faster onsite modular installation. The innovative design also shrinks the amount of reinforced concrete and simplifies construction that has historically plagued nuclear projects. The result: a nuclear plant that can be project-financed, built on time, and brought online fast. Blue Energy’s ability to energize the steam turbines early with a bridge fuel will demonstrate the world’s first gas-to-nuclear conversion, establishing a new blueprint for rapidly scaling baseload generation to deliver energy abundance and energy security around the world.” About Blue Energy Founded in 2023, Blue Energy builds modular nuclear power plants in shipyards, reducing construction time by 80%. The company’s plant design is reactor agnostic and can quickly deploy affordable, baseload electricity at a price that is competitive with fossil fuels and renewables. Blue Energy stems from MIT’s Nuclear Science & Engineering Department and is backed by The Engine Ventures and At One Ventures. For more information, visit www.blueenergy.co/ or follow the company on LinkedIn . About Crusoe As the AI factory company, Crusoe is on a mission to accelerate the abundance of energy and intelligence. The company provides a reliable, scalable, cost-effective, and environmentally friendly solution for AI infrastructure. By harnessing large-scale clean energy, building AI-optimized data centers, and delivering an AI cloud platform, Crusoe empowers its customers to build the future faster. Latest articles March 27, 2026 Crusoe Announces New 900 MW AI Factory Campus in Abilene, Texas to Support Microsoft AI Infrastructure March 24, 2026 Crusoe and Redwood Materials Expand Strategic Partnership, Scaling to 7x the Original AI Infrastructure Density March 24, 2026 Form Energy and Crusoe Announce Agreement for 12 Gigawatt-Hours of Iron-Air Batteries for AI Data Centers Are you ready to build something amazing? Contact Us