Hourigan files for 320-acre data center campus outside Richmond, Virginia - DCD Home News Construction & Site Selection Hourigan files for 320-acre data center campus outside Richmond, Virginia Campus needs new transmission lines December 15, 2023 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A local developer has proposed a 320-acre data center campus outside Richmond, Virginia. The Henrico Citizen and Richmond Times-Dispatch report that construction firm Hourigan has filed initial rezoning plans with Henrico County for a new data center campus. – Google Maps The proposed VAH Data Center Campus would span 320 acres in Sandston at the 5 intersection of Technology Boulevard and Route 60 along East Williamsburg Road at Technology Boulevard. The company has requested to rezone the land from agricultural to light industrial. The company says it expects to see around $1 billion invested in the project. Details on the number and specifications of data centers planned for the campus weren’t shared. No intended end customer was named. The site is seemingly the same parcel on which Atlantic Crossing LLC was seeking industrial zoning in 2021. Proposed uses included cold storage, distribution/warehouse, advanced manufacturing, and fleet facilities. The proposals were withdrawn in 2022. The “VAH” moniker references the three entities involved: Vienna Finance, Atlantic Crossing, and Hourigan. However, a new Dominion transmission line (known as Route 3) will have to be given the green light by regulators in order to make the new campus a reality. “Plans for the VAH Data Center Campus cannot be realized, and will not advance Henrico County’s or the Commonwealth’s economic development goals if businesses at the VAH Data Center Campus lack reliable access to adequate electrical supply, and this will require considerably more transmission capacity than existing facilities can provide,” the company said in a filing with regulators. The new campus is located a few miles away from the White Oak Technology Park, where Meta and QTS operate facilities. More in Construction & Site Selection North America data center report: Year-end 2025 23 Jan 2026 Officials in Joplin, Missouri, greenlight rezoning request for potential data center Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 13 Jan 2026 Trump says US data centers will pay their fair share for electricity, starting with Microsoft Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Virginia Henrico County Richmond VAH Data Center Campus Hourigan Sandston Comments