Prince George’s County to pause data center development – NBC4 Washington Skip to content Prince George's County Prince George's County to pause data center development A petition to stop a data center from being built on the site of the old Landover Mall got more than 20,000 signatures. By Darcy Spencer • Published September 15, 2025 • Updated on September 16, 2025 at 12:22 pm BOOKMARKER NBC Universal, Inc. Prince George’s County is set to pause data center development through an executive order from the county executive and a resolution in the county council. News4’s Darcy Spencer reports. News4 has learned Prince George’s County Executive Aisha Braveboy is pausing data center development through an executive order. The county council is set to pass a separate resolution Tuesday that will also temporarily block data center approvals. Stream NBC4 newscasts for free right here, right now. WATCH HERE Taylor Frazier's petition to stop a data center from being built on the site of the old Landover Mall got more than 20,000 signatures. She's happy Prince George's County is moving to stop data center development — for now. “I’m excited about the temporary pause,” she said. “I think that it shows the people have a voice. People have power.” Braveboy’s executive order puts a temporary hold on permits and applications, and Council Member Wala Blegay’s resolution Tuesday would pause review and approval of future projects. The moves come less than a week after hundreds of residents turned out for a data center task force meeting and protested plans for building a data center at the site of the former mall, which was torn down years ago. “As many people as came out on Wednesday night to the Qualified Data Center Task Force meeting is something that shows we are really serious and mean business,” Frazier said. Local Washington, D.C., Maryland and Virginia local news, events and information Maryland 42 minutes ago ‘Not in our community': Billboard protests Williamsport ICE facility weather 56 minutes ago Dead on the vine: Cold snap devastates vineyards, orchards At a community meeting in Largo Sunday, dozens of people again expressed concern about the impact data centers could have on property values, health and the environment. "Prince George's County is preyed upon. Prince George's County is the home of more detrimental environmental factors than any other county in the state," one speaker said. The task force will make recommendations to the council on data center development by the end of November. Some elected leaders have expressed support for data centers to bring in much-needed tax dollars, but some residents say they want the county to come up with other ways to generate revenue. “I don't think it's gonna bring in that much money,” Frazier said. “When you look at the actual dollars and cents of it, it’s not a long-term solution — it's a bandaid.” The six-month pause will allow the task force to complete its work and the council to develop regulations to govern data center development in the county. The resolution is scheduled to be introduced Tuesday at noon. This article tagged under: Prince George's County Maryland Close Menu Create profile / Log in Dashboard Search for: Local Northern Virginia Prince George's County Maryland Subscribe to The 4Front Storm Team4 Sports All Ears with JP Finlay See It, Share It Videos Investigations 4 More Context Consumer Submit a tip The Scene Cherry Blossoms in DC Subscribe to The Weekend Scene Working 4 You: Community Take our daily flash survey About NBC4 Washington Our news standards TV Schedule Our apps NBC4 TV Schedule Submit photos and video Submit a consumer complaint Take our daily flash survey Promotions Newsletters Cozi TV Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Contact Us