Atlas files for 428-acre technology and data park outside Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Atlas files for 428-acre technology and data park outside Atlanta, Georgia Up to seven buildings planned April 14, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A new data center campus is being proposed outside Atlanta, Georgia. Atlas Development last week filed a Development of Regional Impact application with the Georgia Department of State Affairs for a project known as Avemore. Atlas plans data center park in Villa Rica, GA – Google Maps The 428-acre technology and data park is set to be located in the Carroll County side of Villa Rica, along Hwy 61, Hickory Level, and South Van Wert. Further details on the number and scope of planned buildings were not shared. The first phase of development is set to launch in 2028. Avemore GA, LLC, Matthews Family Trust, Winchester Real Estate Investment Company, LLC, and Villa Land C are listed as the site's property owners. Avemore GA, LLC filed a rezoning request for 55 & 63 Goldworth Road (currently the Goldworth Farm Park) for data center use last year. Site plans included in that request suggest seven 350,000 sq ft (32,515 sqm) single-story buildings and a total investment of $5-7 billion. The Villa Rica city council previously approved plans in 2018 for a residential development on the site known as the Avemore project that would have seen some 500 residential units built on largely undeveloped land. City staff initially recommended denial of the new request in August as the data center plans were seen as a completely new project and not an alteration of the existing zoning. The application was subsequently withdrawn and refiled, with staff recommending approval. Georgia real estate firm Embry Development Company, LLC is also listed in the December application, having acquired the land in 2023 . Little information is available about Atlas, but the company is planning several campuses in Georgia. January saw it file for an 830-acre, 13-building data center campus south of Atlanta in Newnan, known as Project Sail. The company has since filed for a second 178-acre data center project in Rome; and another 2.2 million sq ft, six-building campus in Bartow County some 40 miles northwest of Atlanta. Villa Rica is located some 30 miles west of Atlanta. The city sits across Carroll and Douglas counties. In March, East Village Dothan, LLC filed plans for a 700-acre data center campus simply known as the Hickman Property, partly within Villa Rica’s city limits. The project would see the development of 11 data center buildings totaling 6.2 million sq ft (576,000 sqm), as well as four warehouses totaling 66,000 sq ft (6,131 sqm). Atlanta is a major data center hub with operators including Microsoft, CoreSite, QTS, DataBank, Flexential, Switch, DC Blox, Edged Energy, Stack, T5, Vantage, and EdgeConneX. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: The New Physics of US Data Center Infrastructure 09 Dec 2025 Evolution partners with HTC for data centers in Vietnam Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 01 Apr 2026 Oracle expands AI infrastructure offering in US gov't clouds Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 55 & 63 Goldworth Road Atlanta Atlas Development LLC Avemore Carroll County Georgia Villa Rica Comments