Google purchases 950 acres for potential data center in Monroe County, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Google purchases 950 acres for potential data center in Monroe County, Georgia Land valued at $58 million October 10, 2025 By Georgia Butler Have your say Google has purchased 950 acres of land in Monroe County, Georgia, for a potential data center. As reported by WGXA , the company spent $58.5m for the parcel on September 26, 2025, between Rumble Road and the I-75. – Google Maps According to Google, it was acquired for a potential data center. In a statement to WCXA, Google said: "While we do not have a confirmed timeline for development for the site, we want to ensure we have the option to further grow, should our business demand it." Monroe County is located in the central portion of Georgia. Google has an existing data center campus in Douglas County, near Atlanta. That campus was built in 2007, and expanded in 2015. The land purchased by Google is near the Rumble Technology Campus that is being developed by Cloverleaf. The 900-acre Rumble Technology Campus was granted zoning permission in November 2024 and is set to see 12 data center buildings developed with a total floorspace of 4.2 million sq ft (390,190 sqm). The campus was expanded by a further 325 acres in July 2025 to help avoid impacting wetlands on the site. Another 900-acre campus proposed for nearby Bolingbroke was denied in August . Most of Georgia's data centers are centered around Atlanta. Traditionally a Tier 2 market, the city has quickly become a major hotspot for data center development. Operators include Digital Realty, Flexential, Hivelocity, CoreSite, and Centersquare, among others. More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 19 Apr 2026 Think-tank sues Tennessee county over data center and crypto ban, calls block unconstitutional Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in North America North America data center report 31 Mar 2026 Ericsson scores VTel Wireless 5G Standalone deal in US Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Atlanta Georgia Google Monroe County Rumble Road Rumble Technology Campus Comments