OpenAI Stargate's Milam, Texas, 'Freebird' data center to span 548,950 sq ft in first phase - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel OpenAI Stargate's Milam, Texas, 'Freebird' data center to span 548,950 sq ft in first phase Texas filing reveals project will cost around $470 million April 22, 2026 By Sebastian Moss Have your say OpenAI's planned data center in Milam County, Texas, will comprise a single-story 548,950 square foot (51,000 sqm) data center with four data halls. A filing with the Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation reveals the size of the 'Freebird' Stargate data center's first phase. The data center is expected to grow larger in subsequent phases. The filing discloses the estimated cost of the project at $470 million, with a project completion date of 15 October. – OpenAI/Peter Hoeschele Freebird's project head is listed as Zoheir Taheri at SB Energy, the SoftBank subsidiary tasked with building and operating the 1.2GW facility. Taheri came from Studio 151, which SB acquired in January. OpenAI is also an investor in SB Energy. On OpenAI's side, Kaylen Bushell is listed as the tenant contact person. Bushnell is one of a number of OpenAI hires that came from Avicado Construction, a construction advisor that is working on Stargate. Corgan Architects is listed as the project's design firm. The filing comes amid a turbulent time for OpenAI's data center efforts. In early March, Oracle and OpenAI canceled plans to expand their flagship Abilene Stargate data center campus due to alleged financing difficulties and project delays. OpenAI execs disputed challenges with Stargate, and posted pictures of progress at other locations. That month, Stargate leader Peter Hoeschele announced that phase one of Freebird had officially topped out. "Industrializing compute =compressing the cycle time from power to intelligence and making it repeatable (not a one-time hero run!)," he said. "We gotta earn that by clearing a thousand small constraints with a tight field team. It's been amazing to watch the progress and talent at this site." However, by April, Hoeschele was no longer at the company. Other critical Stargate figures, including Shamez Hemani, Anuj Saharan, and Keith Heyde, left around the same time. The company, which is preparing for an IPO, has canceled Stargate projects in the UK and Norway . OpenAI hired Sachin Katti in December to lead its new compute infrastructure strategy. In March, he said: "At OpenAI, we’re scaling compute to tens of gigawatts—rethinking and building resilient compute supply chains, AI data center, chip, rack, cluster & WAN design, scaling inference efficiency, and global delivery and operations of multi-GW scale AI infrastructure." More in The Data Center Construction Channel Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 14 Nov 2025 DataVita files to expand data center campus in Glasgow, Scotland Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities Tags Avicado Construction Technology Services Corgan Architects Freebird Milam County OpenAI Peter Hoeschele SB Energy Sachin Katti Stargate Texas Zoheir Taheri Comments