Sequitor Edge targets 2MW facility in Rapid City, South Dakota - DCD Home News The Edge Infra & Inference Channel Sequitor Edge targets 2MW facility in Rapid City, South Dakota Company planning more than a dozen Edge sites nationwide February 12, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A new Edge data center has been proposed in Rapid City, South Dakota. Elevate Rapid City this week announced that Sequitor Edge is planning a facility in the Pennington County city. – Google Maps The company is planning to develop a greenfield facility on 10 acres within the 700-acre Black Hills Industrial Center from Dream Design International. “At Sequitor Edge, we like to say that we’re connecting people and businesses to the power of the digital frontier,” said Dan Fuhrman, co-founder and CEO of Sequitor Edge. “We do that with hyper-personalized services that are located next door — or at the edge — in high-growth but underserved markets like Rapid City. From operational efficiencies to enhanced decision-making, Rapid City will be uniquely positioned to innovate, compete, and grow.” Full details of the development haven’t been shared, but the facility will reportedly be Tier III quality. Local press suggests the data center will offer 2MW across 30,000 sq ft (2,787 sqm) and be located across Highway 16 from the Rapid City landfill. Utilizing a closed-loop cooling system, the facility is reportedly expandable to 10MW. Timelines for development weren't shared. “Digital infrastructure is increasingly essential to economic competitiveness,” said Todd Kenner, CEO of Elevate Rapid City. “This project strengthens Rapid City’s ability to support data-driven industries while reflecting a thoughtful, site-specific approach. Sequitor Edge is building infrastructure that serves local businesses, enhances resilience, and supports long-term economic growth in our region.” Sequitor Edge was founded in 2024 and previously said it plans to develop and operate 18 Edge data centers over the next three years. The company has said it is planning projects across Nebraska, Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wisconsin, Michigan, and Indiana. The company has previously acquired 16 acres of land for a data center project in Kearney, Nebraska. The facility could launch in 2027. Victoria Blatchford, VP of business development for Sequitor Edge’s Great Plains Region, added: “Sequitor Edge will deploy services and infrastructure in Rapid City that deliver critical competitive advantages to the business community.” More in Edge & IoT Creating a modern digital backbone for global healthcare 26 Nov 2025 The coming storm for satellites Episode From edge to AI factories - mitigating risk at any scale More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 26 Jan 2026 Microsoft unveils Maia 200 inferencing chip Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Black Hills Industrial Center Pennington County Rapid City Sequitor Edge South Dakota Comments