Sequitor Edge to build data center on 16-acre land parcel in Kearney, Nebraska - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Sequitor Edge to build data center on 16-acre land parcel in Kearney, Nebraska Facility slated to open in 2027 September 22, 2025 By Charlotte Trueman Have your say Nebraska’s Kearney City Council has approved the sale of 16 acres of land for the construction of a Sequitor Edge data center. The site at Kearney's TechoNE Crossing technology park is scheduled to open in 2027. – Tony Webster via Wikimedia Commons No further details about the data center have been disclosed; however, a press release announcing the facility said “Tier 3 security and redundancy, flexible integration strategies, and highly efficient operations” would be made available to tenants. “We’re thrilled to reach an agreement with the City of Kearney to acquire this parcel. The location is strategically placed near NPPD’s energy infrastructure and will take advantage of its proximity to fiber optic cabling. It is an ideal location from which Sequitor Edge will be able to serve a regional customer base,” said Daniel Fuhrman, Sequitor Edge CEO. “We couldn’t be more pleased with the support demonstrated by the city, and the local business community; Kearney will be a leader among other small cities in the mushrooming technology sector. “ Sequitor Edge was founded in 2024 by Fuhrman and Randy Mortensen. In February 2025, the Nebraska-based company launched a data center regional operating firm named Sequitor Heartland . At launch, Sequitor Heartland said it was planning a data center in central Nebraska and would also operate across Colorado, Iowa, and Kansas. The company’s other regional operating companies include Sequitor Great Plains and Sequitor Great Lakes; with the former operating in Minnesota, North Dakota, and South Dakota, and the latter in Wisconsin, Michigan, and Indiana. Earlier this year, Sequitor Edge said it had plans to develop and operate 18 Edge data centers over the next three years, across these three regional arms. More in Construction & Site Selection Preventing multimillion dollar data center losses through reporting 25 Feb 2026 Indian construction conglomerate Larsen and Toubro signs MoU for 250MW data center Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 02 Apr 2026 Poolside seeks partners for data center in Texas after CoreWeave deal falls apart Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Daniel Fuhrman Kearney Nebraska Sequitor Edge Sequitor Heartland Tech oNE Crossing technology park Comments