Meta’s 30th Data Center: Delivering AI, Creating Community Benefits, and Supporting Wetlands Restoration Skip to content Back to Newsroom Meta November 12, 2025 November 14, 2025 Listen to Article 10 Pause 10 0.25× 0.5× 1× 1.25× 1.5× 2× Takeaways We’re breaking ground on our 30th data center in Beaver Dam, Wisconsin, designed to enable ambitious AI workloads. As part of our commitment to supporting the Beaver Dam community, we’re donating $15 million to Alliant Energy’s Hometown Care Energy Fund, to help cover home energy costs for local families in need. We’re also partnering with Ducks Unlimited and others to revitalize 570 acres of wetlands and prairie surrounding the Beaver Dam data center . At Meta, we’re focused on building industry-leading infrastructure that supports our most ambitious AI workloads and connects billions of people around the world. As we progress on this journey, today, we’re excited to announce that we’re adding another AI-optimized data center to our fleet in Beaver Dam, Wisconsin — marking a milestone as our 30th data center worldwide. Chosen for its access to reliable infrastructure and skilled workforce, Beaver Dam represents the next step in bolstering the technologies that bring people and communities together. Once operational, the Beaver Dam data center will be optimized for our expanding AI workloads, supporting our growing fleet of industry-leading AI infrastructure, and setting us up to deliver the future of AI innovation. Investing in Local Community and Economic Growth Our investment in Beaver Dam will exceed $1 billion, supporting more than 100 operational jobs and over 1,000 skilled trade workers onsite at peak construction. Meta will also underwrite nearly $200 million in energy infrastructure investments to cover costs associated with building the data center, including network upgrades, utility substations, and transmission lines. Additionally, Meta will donate $15 million to Alliant Energy’s Hometown Care Energy Fund, helping cover home energy costs for families in need. Next fall, applications for our Data Center Community Action Grants will open in Beaver Dam, providing funding to schools and local organizations to help put technology to use for community benefit, build strong, sustainable communities, and improve STEAM education. We’re also empowering local small businesses through our free digital skills training programs, which build digital skills and help small businesses leverage AI tools — including Meta AI — to grow and thrive. Prioritizing Water Stewardship and Wetland Restoration We’re committed to having a positive impact in every community we join, with a focus on water stewardship and responsible resource management. Our Beaver Dam campus will use dry-cooling, which means there will be no water demands for cooling once the data center is operational. We’ll also restore 100% of the water consumed by the data center to local watersheds. Our Beaver Dam data center will prioritize on-site water efficiency by: Capturing and infiltrating rainwater on site, Incorporating water-saving fixtures and technologies within the data center facilities, And landscaping with native vegetation to reduce irrigation demands. In partnership with Ducks Unlimited and other organizations, we’re also restoring 570 acres of wetlands and prairie surrounding the data center — approximately 175 acres of which will be deeded to Ducks Unlimited for revitalization. This effort will transform degraded wetlands into vibrant, ecologically rich habitats supporting thousands of birds, native wildlife, and plant species. Clean Energy and Sustainable Design Our Beaver Dam data center’s electricity use will be matched with 100% clean and renewable energy. The facility is designed to achieve LEED Gold Certification, i n line with high efficiency standards we set for all our data centers . Categories : Meta Technology and Innovation Tags: AI Data Centers Infrastructure Sustainability DOWNLOAD ALL IMAGES Share this article Related News Follow Meta Newsroom Press Resources press@meta.com Media Gallery To help personalize content, tailor and measure ads, and provide a safer experience, we use cookies. By clicking or navigating the site, you agree to allow our collection of information on and off Facebook through cookies. Learn more, including about available controls: Cookie Policy I Agree