Protesters to rally against Allen Park data center before planning vote – Planet Detroit Loading... Skip to content Home » Protesters to rally against Allen Park data center before planning vote Data center project rendering courtesy of the City of Allen Park. Overview: - A 45,000-square-foot, 26 megawatt data center is planned for a site on Enterprise Drive south of I-94 and an opening in the first quarter of 2027. - Organizers of a Thursday protest say data centers create few jobs and can strain energy infrastructure. - The proposed Allen Park facility's power usage is roughly one-fiftieth that of the 1.4 gigawatt data center planned for Saline Township. Don’t miss out! Join more than 7,000+ of your neighbors who already receive our informative, independent reporting on climate, health and the environment in their inbox each week. Sign me up The Allen Park Planning Commission will consider a proposal for a 26-megawatt data center Thursday, with a protest against the project planned to take place before the 7 p.m. meeting. Indivisible: Downriver United 734, the protest organizer, said in a statement that data centers create few jobs and can strain energy infrastructure. “Across the country, communities are raising concerns about increased electricity usage, environmental impacts, and the risk of higher utility costs being passed on to residents,” the statement said. In Michigan, a flood of data center proposals has generated bipartisan pushback from residents concerned about impacts to water resources, energy reliability and affordability , and state climate goals . Developers say the projects bring hundreds of temporary construction jobs and significant local tax revenue. “At this stage, we’re focused on ensuring the local community and relevant stakeholders have the opportunity to engage with us directly through the formal planning and zoning process,” Areje Anderson, chief of people at Solstice Data, said in response to a request for comment on criticism of the data center proposal. The company is not conducting interviews or providing statements ahead of Thursday’s meeting, Anderson said. Allen Park data center proposal smaller than other Metro Detroit projects The 45,000-square-foot facility is proposed for a site on Enterprise Drive south of I-94 and an opening in the first quarter of 2027. It’s smaller than other recent local proposals: the Allen Park data center’s projected power usage is roughly one-fiftieth the size of the 1.4-gigawatt facility planned for Saline Township . The facility developed by Solstice Data would employ a closed loop cooling system, using municipal water only for its office space, and the project would not require a new electrical substation, Allen Park Building Department Director Matt Baker said in an email. The facility would have 12 generators and 12 above ground fuel tanks for backup power, according to a site plan review prepared by the city’s planning consultant Carlisle Wortman. The proposed data center site is adjacent to the Ecorse River, and the Reeck Drain crosses the southern portion of the property, according to Carlisle Wortman. The developer indicated that regulated wetlands may be present on the site, and it is conducting a wetland delineation study to confirm this, the city consultant’s report said. The facility is part of a “cluster of data centers” Solstice Data plans to develop in Metro Detroit, according to documents submitted by the company. The data center will comply with the US Green Building Council’s Leadership In Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) principles, and enroll in DTE Energy’s MI Green Power Program, according to the documents. The DTE program funds wind and solar energy that will completely offset the data center’s fossil fuel usage with renewable energy, Solstice Data said. Allen Park officials did not sign nondisclosure agreements related to the project, Baker said. The city anticipates 30 to 35 employees will work on-site at the data center, he said. 🗳️ What’s next? Tips for civic action Why it matters ⚡ Data center opponents say they could impact ratepayers’ utility bills, which DTE and Consumers Energy deny. Data center supporters say the projects will create jobs and bring tax dollars to local communities. Data center power demands could make it more difficult for the state to meet its climate goals, depending on what generation sources are used. Who’s making civic decisions 🏛️ The Allen Park Planning Commission is considering a proposal for a 26 MW data center in the city. How to take civic action now 📅 Attend the Allen Park Planning Commission meeting at 7 p.m. Thursday, Jan. 8 at Allen Park City Hall, 15915 Southfield Road, Allen Park, MI 48101. 🌱 Follow Indivisible: Downriver United 734 for updates on advocates’ perspective on the issue. 📞 Call the city of Allen Park at 313-382-7946. 📣 Ask about the data center’s potential impacts on Allen Park. What to watch for next 🗓️ The Allen Park Planning Commission could approve plans for the data center at Thursday’s meeting. Civic impact 🌍 Following data center developments and engaging with the municipalities deciding on them is one way residents can influence the impact data centers have in the state. ⭐ Please let us know what action you took or if you have any additional questions. Please send a quick email to connect@planetdetroit.org. MORE DATA CENTER NEWS ‘Erosion of trust’: Michigan legislators push back on flood of data center proposals Legislation unlikely to advance without ballot measure to rein in DTE and Consumers’ influence over the political process, environmental advocate says. by Brian Allnutt December 23, 2025 January 2, 2026 Data center is threat to Saline River, residents say in wetlands hearing Pollution from closed-loop cooling systems, wetland destruction are among the issues aired at EGLE hearing on Oracle, OpenAI data center’s wetland permit. by Brian Allnutt December 18, 2025 December 19, 2025 Live recap: Data centers and local power in Michigan In Michigan, rural communities are grappling with the impact of major tech companies proposing large-scale data centers, raising critical questions about energy consumption, water use, and who truly benefits from tax incentives. by Nina Misuraca Ignaczak December 18, 2025 December 18, 2025 Brian Allnutt Senior Reporter Brian Allnutt is a senior reporter and contributing editor at Planet Detroit. He covers the climate crisis, environmental justice, politics and open space. More by Brian Allnutt