Developer files plans for Western Wake data storage facility Your neighborhood’s our neighborhood. Keep up with it. Join 24,000 of your neighbors who read the INDY Daily newsletter. Sign Up! There's an INDY newsletter for you. Find it here. We're the INDY , the Triangle's alternative newspaper for the last 40+ years. Get the good stuff straight to your inbox. The Daily (Weekdays) The Triangle’s news, every morning. Insider (Sundays) The goodies we published this week. Events (Thursdays) A curated guide to the weekend, featuring our “INDY Selects.” Field Guide (Fridays) Direct from our Arts & Culture editor, get the low-down on some Triangle scenes. News Quiz (Mondays) A weekly brain teaser to test your INDY smarts. Partner Promotions Exclusive local deals, giveaways, and more from trusted partners. Best of the Triangle The best known competition in the Triangle, all year long. Know when to vote! Sign up Skip to content Credit: Illustration by Nicole Pajor Moore Natelli Investments LLC, the developer behind a proposed data storage facility in western Wake County, filed a land use amendment and rezoning and annexation requests with the Town of Apex Tuesday, according to a press release from the developer. It plans to begin construction in late 2026 or early 2027 “pending all approvals and site planning,” the release stated. The company wants to build a new “digital campus” on a 190-acre farm property currently zoned for residential use off of Old U.S. Highway 1 in New Hill in unincorporated Wake County. The property will “support the processing and storage requirements of digital applications for residents in Apex and the greater Triangle area,” according to the release. Large data facilities are popping up all over the country to power technology and run AI, and residential communities are grappling with their impacts, including the staggering amounts of water and electricity they typically require. Neighbors of the New Hill site, including many who live in the nearby Jordan Pointe planned community, are organizing to oppose the proposed data storage facility. An online petition against the data center proposal, launched two weeks ago, has nearly 2,000 signatures. Last Tuesday, a group of more than 100 residents wearing red T-shirts attended the Apex Town Council meeting, where a representative, Jordan Pointe resident Doug Stewart, spoke for nine minutes and outlined neighbors’ concerns about air pollution, health risks, financial costs, and disruption from light and noise. Stewart brought with him a wooden birdhouse he said was crafted by his grandfather, noting that his family has lived in the area for generations. “Just like this birdhouse here, our community is handcrafted,” Stewart told the council. “It’s imperfect, but it’s also built to last, just like our town is, and each of you as its council has been part of handcrafting a future here. Ultimately, you’re the composers of the Apex orchestra.” In the press release, the developer said the town’s filing to amend Apex’s Unified Development Ordinance “clearly identifies the reasons why the zoning modification fits within the Town of Apex’s development standards.” The property “has been identified for industrial employment” in Apex’s “Advance Apex” 2045 Land Use Map Update that the town’s council adopted in 2019, according to the release. The New Hill digital campus, it continued, “will consist of buildings housing computer servers, back-up generators and water storage.” Duke Energy’s transmission grid will serve the facility, according to the release, and it won’t create a strain on the town’s allocated power supply. Water used to cool the facility will come from recirculating nonpotable water, and the facility “will meet all land use requirement [sic] , including noise, lighting and landscaping standards.” Michael Natelli, the executive vice president for Natelli Investments, called the New Hill digital campus “an ideal use” for the property and local community. “Data Storage Facilities are modest users of public facilities,” he said in the release. “Not only do they generate far less traffic than residential communities, but they create high-wage technology jobs and strengthen the technology eco-system in their region.” The company will provide more details about the proposal in the coming weeks and continue to hold community meetings. Send an email to Raleigh editor Jane Porter: [email protected] . Comment on this story at [email protected] . Jane Porter [email protected] Jane Porter is Wake County editor of the INDY , covering Raleigh and other communities across Wake County. She first joined the staff in 2013 and is a former INDY intern, staff writer, and editor-in-chief, first joining the staff in 2013. More by Jane Porter Link Copy link