East Vincent Township, Pa. debates data center ordinance amid community concerns - 6abc Philadelphia community East Vincent Township debates data center ordinance amid community concerns By Leland Pinder Thursday, November 13, 2025 EAST VINCENT TOWNSHIP, Pa (WPVI) -- A proposed ordinance aimed at regulating data center development in East Vincent Township drew strong reactions from residents during a public meeting Wednesday night, as concerns mount over the growing presence of large-scale server facilities across the region. Township supervisors discussed a measure they say would establish guardrails, protections, and oversight for any potential development at the proposed site, the old Pennhurst property. The ordinance includes provisions such as height and setback requirements and restrictions on various types of pollution. Joanna Binelli, another East Vincent resident, expressed skepticism about the ordinance's effectiveness. "I don't believe, strongly, that there's anything that you can put in the ordinance that will prevent these things from happening," Binelli said. Some residents fear the ordinance could have unintended consequences. "In my opinion, creating this ordinance could be viewed as a red carpet invitation to a data center," said Dina Hitchcock, a township resident. "I'd rather this just be turned down outright," Hitchcock said. The proposed site is located near residential neighborhoods and the Southeastern Pennsylvania Veterans Center. "I don't want a data center in my backyard," said one resident during the meeting. "I do understand there is a need for them," Hitchcock added. "I am just saying this is not the appropriate place." Data centers, which house massive amounts of digital information, are increasingly being proposed across the Delaware Valley. A map from the U.S. Department of Energy shows a growing number of facilities either planned or already in operation throughout the tri-state area. These centers can span hundreds of thousands or even millions of square feet, filled with servers and computers. As the tech industry expands to support artificial intelligence and other data-heavy applications, experts say concerns about energy consumption and environmental impact, like water consumption, are valid. John Quigley, of the University of Pennsylvania's Kleinman Center for Energy Policy, says some data centers can use five million gallons of water a day. "Whether it's being drawn from streams, rivers, or whether it's, especially if it's from groundwater, there are over one million Pennsylvanians that get their water from wells," Quigley said. East Vincent Township is among the communities that rely on well water. State Sen. Katie Muth, who represents parts of Chester, Berks, and Montgomery counties, voiced her support for residents opposing the project. "People here deserve better. They live here. They deserve to live in peace and quiet, and also not to have to subsidize this through utility bills, which is another big problem in Pennsylvania," Muth said. Wednesday's meeting was for discussion only. The township could vote on the ordinance on Dec. 17. Report a correction or typo Copyright © 2026 WPVI-TV. All Rights Reserved. Related Topics SOCIETY CHESTER COUNTY EAST VINCENT TOWNSHIP PENNSYLVANIA COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Community tree planting celebrates Arbor Day Philly City Council passes historic legislation on ICE enforcement Officials remove suspected source of rat infestation in Mayfair Marine Corps student experience and career fair Watch Live ON NOW AccuWeather: Wet and chilly this weekend Celtics beat the 76ers 108-100 in Game 3 Fmr. Bristol Twp. school security chief arrested on child porn charges Child hit by car while walking to school; driver sought Jonathan Greenard traded to Eagles, lands $100 million deal 2 hours ago Target of Action News Investigation Agrees to settlement with AG Body found in the Delaware River near a New Castle County park Police name suspect in fatal South Philadelphia stabbing