Plans filed for 2.55 million sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Plans filed for 2.55 million sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta Few details available for Project Spalding March 31, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Plans for a new data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia, have been filed. Montana Property Group LLC filed a Development of Regional Impact (DRI) application this week with the Georgia Department of State Affairs for a data center campus known as Project Spalding. Few details are provided other than the campus will total 2.55 million square feet (236,900 sqm) on a site in Spalding County, which is located some 37 miles south of downtown Atlanta. The first phase of the project looks set to be completed by 2030. Griffin is the largest city in the county. DCD has reached out to Montana Property’s representative for the project, law firm Taylor English Duma, for more information. Atlanta, traditionally a Tier 2 market, has quickly become a major hotspot for data center development. DRI applications for more than a dozen campuses, totaling tens of millions of square feet across dozens of buildings, have been filed over the last couple of years. While many are in Atlanta’s traditional data center heartland around Fulton County, applications have been filed for projects across the region. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 04 Dec 2025 Bitzero breaks ground on Finland data center Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 29 Oct 2025 TeraWulf and Fluidstack to develop Texas data center in Google-backed deal Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Atlanta Georgia Montana Property Group LLC Project Spalding Spalding County Comments