Data center planned near Shreveport, Louisiana - report - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Data center planned near Shreveport, Louisiana - report But nothing is finalized yet January 17, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say A data center could be coming to Shreveport, Louisiana. According to a report by the Shreveport Bossier Advocate , two memorandums of purchase and sale agreements relating to a 810 acre land parcel north of the town of Blanchard are connected to a possible data center development. Data center listed as "State Line Property" – Town of Blanchard Blanchard is a town located northwest of Shreveport. A memorandum of purchase and sale is a legal document that gives a buyer the option to buy a property, allowing them to evaluate a property without the potential of being outbid by another buyer. Importantly, a memorandum does not indicate that a transfer of ownership has occurred. In this case, it means that a deal for the land has not yet been completed. Jim Galambos, the mayor of Blanchard, has told the Shreveport Bossier Advocate that he has signed an NDA with a potential developer, and that a public announcement regarding the data center could arrive in late February. Although the potential facility’s size and capacity are currently unknown, details about its water usage, as well as the identity of the developer, can be found in a water services agreement with a “potential large-scale commercial user” approved by the Town of Blanchard last December. As noted by the Shreveport Bossier Advocate, this would provide up to five million gallons of water per day to a facility known as the “State Line Project data center campus.” This agreement was signed with TXLAAR LLC, which is pursuing another data center project in the area. If approved, this other facility would span around 1,080 acres near Highway 3, Bossier Parish. Most of Louisiana's existing data centers are clustered around its largest city, New Orleans. More in North America North America data center report 12 Nov 2025 Anthropic plans $50bn US data center spend, starting with Fluidstack sites in Texas and New York Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: The New Physics of US Data Center Infrastructure 03 Dec 2025 Botswana launches first national data center Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era Tags Blanchard Louisiana Shreveport State Line Project TXLAAR Comments