New Mexico’s Project Jupiter data center part of larger Stargate AI initiative - El Paso Matters Skip to content Share using Native tools Share Copied to clipboard Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Nextdoor (Opens in new window) Nextdoor Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit BorderPlex Digital Assets included this rendering of Project Jupiter in a presentation to a legislative committee in New Mexico in July. (BorderPlex Digital Assets) OpenAI and Oracle are partnering to build the $165 billion Project Jupiter data center in Santa Teresa, New Mexico, near El Paso as part of OpenAI’s massive Stargate Project – aiming to spend half a trillion dollars this decade on infrastructure that enables artificial intelligence technology. OpenAI’s announcement this week confirmed the two technology giants are behind the massive project, which was initially proposed by lesser-known BorderPlex Digital Assets out of Austin and its development partner Stack Infrastructure, which is based in Colorado. “AI can only fulfill its promise if we build the compute to power it,” Sam Altman, OpenAI’s chief executive, said in a statement. Compute refers to the hardware and software needed to run artificial intelligence models. “That compute is the key to ensuring everyone can benefit from AI and to unlocking future breakthroughs. We’re already making historic progress toward that goal through Stargate and moving quickly not just to meet its initial commitment, but to lay the foundation for what comes next,” Altman said. President Donald Trump announced the Stargate joint investment initiative in January on his first day in office alongside Altman, Oracle co-founder Larry Ellison and SoftBank Chairman Masayoshi Son. Hours after that announcement, Trump’s then-adviser Elon Musk suggested OpenAI and SoftBank didn’t have the money to accomplish Stargate. The Doña Ana County Board of Commissioners approved an incentive deal for Project Jupiter by a 4-1 vote last week. That was the last hurdle before the project could proceed. Hundreds of Doña Ana County residents appear at county commissioners’ meeting with a vote on the proposed Project Jupiter data center on the agenda, Sept. 19, 2025. (Corrie Boudreaux/El Paso Matters) The incoming data center campus in Doña Ana County is one of five sites where OpenAI said it’s building Stargate data centers. Other sites are located in Shackelford County, Texas, near Abilene, and an undisclosed site in the Midwest. OpenAI and the investment firm SoftBank are separately developing two other data centers in Ohio and in Milam County, Texas, near Austin. “Together with Oracle, SoftBank, and our other partners,” OpenAI said, “we’re turning a $500 billion, 10-gigawatt commitment into large-scale physical infrastructure, jobs in communities across the country, and compute that will unlock the next generation of AI breakthroughs.” Oracle will lease the AI-training data centers from BorderPlex Digital, and OpenAI will be the facility’s ultimate customer. OpenAI and Oracle didn’t respond to requests for comment. BorderPlex Digital Assets included this rendering of Project Jupiter in a presentation to a legislative committee in New Mexico in July. (BorderPlex Digital Assets) The five sites picked to host Stargate data center facilities – including Santa Teresa – were “chosen through a rigorous nationwide process launched in January,” OpenAI said in the statement it issued this week. “OpenAI, Oracle, and SoftBank reviewed over 300 proposals from more than 30 states.” Project Jupiter will be a collection of four data centers meant for artificial intelligence training, and it would be among the biggest private investments ever made that could reshape the regional economy around El Paso and Las Cruces. In Santa Teresa, Project Jupiter’s developers plan to invest $50 billion over the next five years, and the companies will invest up to $165 billion over the 30 years. The deal between the developers and Doña Ana County requires the project to employ 2,500 construction workers and then 750 full-time workers once the facility is operational. The majority of the $165 billion investment will go toward paying for computer equipment such as graphics processing units. And that investment cost factors in three refreshes of the computer equipment every five to seven years, according to Nicholas Minor, director of public affairs for Stack. In exchange for not having to pay property taxes on the 1,400-acre campus or gross receipts taxes, BorderPlex Digital said it will pay the county $360 million over 30 years – $12 million annually. Stack also made a binding commitment to give the county $50 million to fund badly needed water and wastewater infrastructure upgrades throughout Doña Ana County. That’s significant because of the legacy of poor drinking water in Sunland Park and Santa Teresa, and the potential impact that funding could have to improve water and sewer systems. Project Jupiter: DoñA Ana county data center Austin-based company says it plans to spend $165 billion on New Mexico data center campus near El Paso. Here’s what to know. BorderPlex Digital Assets says the company will result in 750 permanent jobs locally and $300 million in direct payments to Doña Ana County. Here’s how that compares to Meta’s center in El Paso. by Diego Mendoza-Moyers August 27, 2025 October 20, 2025 How much water will the $165 billion data center near El Paso use? Developers unveil figures ahead of Doña Ana commissioners vote A public meeting in Sunland Park this week was standing-room only as community members expressed concerns about the massive project, especially its planned water usage. by Diego Mendoza-Moyers September 10, 2025 October 20, 2025 What you need to know as Doña Ana commissioners set to vote on $165 billion Project Jupiter data center near Santa Teresa How much water will the data center use? Where will electricity come from? Will my power bill go up because of this? How does this benefit the region? We answer your questions. by Diego Mendoza-Moyers September 16, 2025 October 20, 2025 $165 billion Project Jupiter data center campus to move forward after tense vote Project Jupiter will be among the biggest private investments ever made and could reshape the regional economy around El Paso and Las Cruces. Not everyone is happy, though. by Diego Mendoza-Moyers September 19, 2025 October 20, 2025 Stack will also give $6.9 million for various community investments in the county, such as new Boys and Girls Club facilities. Project Jupiter’s water, electricity usage The data center campus in Santa Teresa will feature a “closed-loop” system of pipes to cool the computer servers inside the data center buildings, which developers say would require a one-time fill-up before the water is recycled over and over. Filling up the four data centers would require about 10 million gallons of water over two years. Once it’s operating, the project would use a daily average of 20,000 gallons, with a maximum consumption capped at 60,000 gallons in a day, according to figures provided by the developers. The Camino Real Regional Utility Authority will supply drinking water for the campus’ “ongoing operations” according to documents that detail the agreement between Doña Ana County and Project Jupiter’s developers. Hundreds of Doña Ana County residents appear at county commissioners’ meeting with a vote on the proposed Project Jupiter data center on the agenda, Sept. 19, 2025. (Corrie Boudreaux/El Paso Matters) CRRUA, the New Mexico water utility that serves Sunland Park and Santa Teresa, said it produced an average of 2.6 million gallons of water daily from its wells in March. Earlier this year, Sunland Park announced it would develop its own municipal water utility while Doña Ana County officials said they would take over CRRUA’s assets outside of Sunland Park and create a new water provider for the area. It’s not clear how splitting CRRUA will impact Project