BlockFusion wins approval to reopen bitcoin mine on Frontier Avenue Oops, something went wrong Skip to navigation Skip to main content Skip to right column BlockFusion wins approval to reopen bitcoin mine on Frontier Avenue RICK PFEIFFER, Niagara Gazette, Niagara Falls, N.Y. October 24, 2025 3 min read BTC-USD Three years after Niagara Falls imposed tough new restrictions on the operation of high-energy use facilities in the city, a Frontier Avenue bitcoin mine is ready to resume its work. Members of the city council voted unanimously Wednesday night to approve an amendment to the city’s zoning code to add a high-energy use overlay to a facility at 5380 Frontier Ave., operated by Northeast Data LLC, which does business as BlockFusion, a bitcoin miner. The zoning code amendment will allow BlockFusion to apply for a high-energy use industry operating permit from the city and resume its operations. The council action follows a unanimous recommendation from the Falls Planning Board to approve BlockFusion’s operations. In February, the council allowed BlockFusion to resume its efforts to get approval for the zoning overlay and pursue an operating permit after the company was left in limbo for almost 20 months because of a dispute with city officials over whether it was in compliance with zoning code amendments that had placed tough new restrictions on bitcoin mining operations in the Falls, including strict limitations on noise. City lawmakers agreed to accept a draft environmental impact statement (DEIS) from BlockFusion that found noise coming from its bitcoin mining operation was within the limits outlined in the new high-energy use industries zoning code ordinances. The action restarted a process that stalled in July 2023 when the then-city council members split on approving an operating permit for BlockFusion in a dispute over the amount of noise its bitcoin mining was generating. Complaints about the noise created by bitcoin mining facilities that had set up shop in the Falls led the city, in September 2022, to adopt a series of Zoning Code amendments that imposed strict regulations on the operation of “high-energy use industries.” At a public hearing on the then-proposed amendments, one Falls resident described the noise coming from a nearby bitcoin mining facility as the equivalent of “a 747 revving up on Buffalo Avenue.” The new zoning code amendments restricted high-energy use facilities like data centers and bitcoin mining operations to locations that are zoned only for industrial uses. The amendments also created an “overlay” to the city’s current industrial zone requirements, adding restrictions that would require larger setbacks from residential areas and imposing strict limits on the noise generated by the high-energy-use operations. When the new zoning code requirements went into effect in November 2022, BlockFusion ceased operations and applied for an operating permit for its Frontier Avenue facility. The company submitted an application to the city in December 2022, which its attorneys said brought it “into compliance” with the new zoning code requirements. Story Continues However, the application languished in a dispute with city officials over the amount of noise coming from the facility and the measures BlockFusion had taken to reduce it. The zoning code overlay caps the noise from a high-energy use facility at 65 decibels, measured at the property line of the closest residence to the operation. BlockFusion had maintained that a consultant, hired by the company, had measured the noise level at the nearest residence to their facility, which is surrounded by other industrial operations, at 55.5 decibels. The city disputed that finding, claiming that when the facility fired up, its operations increased the ambient noise level in its neighborhood above the 65-decibel threshold. The city says BlockFusion made additional efforts to mitigate noise from its facility and the Falls Zoning Board of Appeals recently granted a waiver that found the company in compliance with the zoning code regulations. BlockFusion has said the resolution of the noise dispute was critical to restarting its operations and eventually expanding its business. Terms and Privacy Policy CA Privacy Notice Your Privacy Choices More Info