South Whitehall residents blast data center plan near Parkland High School Skip to content High-voltage transmission lines provide electricity to data centers in Ashburn in Loudon County, Virginia, on Sunday, July 16, 2023. A data center is being proposed along North Cedar Crest Boulevard, across from Parkland High School, in South Whitehall Twonship.(Associated Press) By Evan Jones | ejones@mcall.com | The Morning Call PUBLISHED: January 20, 2026 at 3:36 PM EST | UPDATED: January 20, 2026 at 4:13 PM EST Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... A proposed 5 million-square-foot data center complex for South Whitehall Township has struck a nerve in the community. More than a dozen township residents attended Tuesday’s online meeting of the Lehigh Valley Planning Commission Comprehensive Planning Committee to speak out against the Atlas Data Center project along North Cedar Crest Boulevard, across from Parkland High School. “As a voter in South Whitehall, I can absolutely say I do not want this in my backyard,” resident Spurgeon Dunbar said. “I do not want this across from the high school where my kids will go to high school.” LVPC committee meetings usually draw a handful of officials and media along with voting members and commission personnel. The South Whitehall data center’s spot at the top of the agenda brought more than 50 to the chatroom, about double than normal. A few residents who spoke noted that South Whitehall overwhelmingly passed a referendum in November’s election to increase taxes to help preserve open space. Yvette Kuhns was concerned about the health of her and her neighbors. “We voted to not have [data centers],” she said. “I have asthma, and I never smoked because of the air pollution here. There’s going to be more pollution, no matter what they say about trying to mitigate it, I know places where they already have it, and people get sick. It’s a horror story.” Five data center buildings are proposed for 410 acres of undeveloped agricultural land at 2493 N. Cedar Crest. The tract is bordered by Mauch Chunk Road and Orefield Road. It’s in South Whitehall’s planned innovation, research and technology overlay district, which LVPC notes was created to “provide a controlled and protected environment for the orderly growth and development of research and technology-related businesses.” Lehigh County property records show that the tract is owned by Jeras Corp., a South Whitehall real estate company. It acquired the land in 1975. Resident Carla Lindenmuth said with the township’s consensus about open space, there will be pushback if the project proceeds. “I understand that this is private land, but we’re not going to see it that way,” Lindenmuth said. “There’s going to be protests if this continues because this is not something that is going to benefit our health, our welfare, our families or anyone.” Dunbar wondered if the number of jobs created by the data center is worth the cost to the local environment. ”I do not think that there is enough job creation here based on my research for this meeting,” he said. “Data centers have maybe 20 to 50 full-time positions after the construction phase is done. What benefit are we seeing to the community here from a job creation standpoint in the long term versus the environmental impact that is potentially downstream from this?” Some concerns from LVPC staff were similar to those brought up with a proposed data center project in Upper Macungie Township , including the effects that noise from cooling equipment, exhaust and nighttime lighting would have on the surrounding neighborhood. There was also a mention of potential sinkholes. Committee member Sunny Ghai requested that a study be conducted on water usage. This data center would use an air-cooled system that uses significantly less water than traditional liquid cooling. LVPC warned that any shift to water-intensive cooling would be “problematic” given local drought risks and infrastructure limits. “I understand that it’s going to be air cooled, but I’m just wondering if it makes sense from a water perspective if we feel it’s going to be adequate,” Ghai said. An LVPC draft letter noted that the project’s electrical demand and impacts on the power grid are being coordinated between the applicant and PPL. That includes a proposed electrical substation that would distribute power to each building. Committee member Christopher Amato reiterated his opposition to data centers. “There were over 70 organizations that sent a letter to the governor saying, ‘we’re not ready for this yet,’ ” he said. “We just don’t have the infrastructure. I have some significant concerns about electrical rates, and I’m also very concerned about the karst topography on that site.” This is the second large data center proposal the LVPC is tackling in two months. In December, it looked at a plan to build a complex of three data centers, covering 2.6 million square feet, at the site of Air Products’ former headquarters in Upper Macungie Township. The committee voted to accept the draft letter with some minor changes. It will be considered at the full LVPC meeting, which is scheduled to be held virtually at 7 p.m. Thursday . The letter will then be sent to township officials, who have the final say on the project. South Whitehall’s planning commission is scheduled to hold a meeting Feb. 12 to discuss the project further. Planners Tuesday also reviewed proposed ordinances from Upper Saucon and North Whitehall townships to proactively address data centers. Both would define data centers as a conditional use and require energy management plans and water resource reports. Recommendations from the LVPC included setbacks of 500 feet and adherence to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency emission standards for backup generators. Morning Call reporter Evan Jones can be reached at ejones@mcall.com. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X RevContent Feed More in Local News 2026 January 20 Close