St. Charles data center ban is first in nation | ksdk.com Breaking News More ( ) » Local News St. Charles becomes 1st city in nation to ban data center construction citywide for a year The unanimous vote to enact a year-long moratorium on data center construction happened at a city council special session on Tuesday. To stream 5 On Your Side on your phone, you need the 5 On Your Side app. Download the 5 On Your Side app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video ST CHARLES, Mo. — The first community in the nation to enact a citywide ban on data center construction is officially St. Charles, Missouri. Every city councilmember voted at a special session on Friday to enact a one-year moratorium on the acceptance of applications relating to the creation or expansion of data centers within the city. The ban was approved after thousands of city residents pushed back on a massive and secretive data center known as "Project Cumulus." The only other city to enact such a ban is Atlanta, Georgia, but its ban only applies to certain neighborhoods . The city does not have a citywide ban in place like St. Charles now does. St. Charles' ban is just one part of a growing nationwide trend. A recent report from engineering and scientific consulting firm Exponent estimated that around $64 billion in data center projects across the country have been blocked or delayed by community action driven by similar anxieties that St. Charles residents faced. The report found that there are at least 142 activist groups across 24 states organizing to block data center construction and expansion. Specific communities featured in the report included: Cascade Locks, Oregon, where voters recalled two officials in 2023 who supported a $100 million data center project. The new board canceled the data center project following a recall election. Warrenton, Virginia, where residents voted out all town council members who supported a proposed Amazon data center in 2024. The newly elected council is composed entirely of opponents to the project, and now has the mandate to block the data center. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out