Festus one step closer to approving proposed data center | STLPR Skip to main content Search Query Show Search © 2026 St. Louis Public Radio Menu Show Search Search Query Donate Play Live Radio Next Up: 0:00 0:00 0:00 0:00 Available On Air Stations On Air Now Playing St. Louis Public Radio KWMU‑1 On Air Now Playing Jazz KWMU‑2 On Air Now Playing Classical KWMU‑3 On Air Now Playing Local Newscast All Streams Government, Politics & Issues Festus leaders take next step toward approving proposed data center St. Louis Public Radio | By Katie Grawitch Published February 27, 2026 at 3:44 PM CST Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email City of Festus Festus City Hall The Festus City Council is one step closer to approving a data center in the Jefferson County community. The council voted 7-0 on Thursday night to hire Kansas City-based accounting firm MarksNelson to negotiate terms with the developer of the proposed project, CRG. The next step comes Monday afternoon, when city and county officials, along with the representatives of the firm, will hold a roundtable discussion . They will meet with representatives from several Jefferson County groups, including Jefferson College, the Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office, the Joachim-Plattin Ambulance District and the Festus R-6 School District. Mayor Sam Richards said any community benefit agreement is preliminary because the city has not identified an end user for the data center. “We don't have any plans,” Richards said. “We don't have any preliminary plans, and last night (we) passed an ordinance to have a negotiator to talk with us and CRG about the possibility of a data center.” The agreement with MarksNelson includes a $20,000 minimum upfront cost and $400 an hour for additional work. The accounting firm hired in Festus also negotiated the AWS data center in Montgomery City and, in its proposal to the city, said it has multiple data center projects “in the final phases of approvals.” There has been vocal opposition to the project from members of the Festus community. At least two residents have filed lawsuits, and several community members protested during Thursday’s meeting, saying they were frustrated when the council did not allow public comment during the brief, 15-minute session. Grassroots organization Wake Up Jeffco has criticized the city government, saying it has not been adequately transparent or receptive to public input. Wake Up Jeffco founder Lori Merriman, who lives near the proposed site, said the organization filed for an LLC three weeks ago to pursue litigation against the city over what she described as a lack of transparency. “They have not been forthright with us,” she said. “They should never be putting anything like this, an industrial thing, in a residential location.” Merriman said she was scheduled to speak against the hiring of MarksNelson at a city council meeting earlier this month, but the discussion was tabled. She said she has not had a chance to speak since. In November, the Festus City Council unanimously voted to annex 240 acres of land in Festus for data center development after CRG withdrew an attempt to build a data center in St. Charles. At the time, City Administrator Greg Camp told STLPR the development could be at least a $1 billion investment. “It's unlike anything that any of these, certainly the city, or any of those institutions, those organizations, have ever seen before,” Camp said. “That type of investment is transformative. The resources that would become available to make an impact in everyday life is really something that, again, you just don't see on that scale, on a regular basis." Monday’s work session, which includes the roundtable discussion, will begin at 5 p.m. The mayor said it will be months before there is any final decision. Tags Government, Politics & Issues Top Stories Festus Jefferson County Data center Clayco Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Katie Grawitch Katie Grawitch is St. Louis Public Radio's 2026 Spring newsroom intern. See stories by Katie Grawitch Related Content Data center developer eyes Festus after St. Charles debacle Missouri lawmakers propose water and power usage requirements for data centers Ameren Missouri signed confidential contracts with multiple big data centers this week Montgomery County Commission approves Amazon data center tax incentive framework