Round Rock City Council approves Skybox AI data center ordinance after hours of comments Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 78 ° Sat 90 ° Sun 89 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY Round Rock City Council approves Skybox AI data center ordinance after hours of comments by Farrah Walton Thu, February 12, 2026 at 10:59 PM Updated Fri, February 13, 2026 at 4:20 AM 9 VIEW ALL PHOTOS The Round Rock City Council heard hours of public comment Thursday night on the Skybox Data Centers’ rezoning proposal. (Photo: CBS Austin) Comment on this story 0 Comment Share story Share topics: Round Rock Water usage Community concerns Skybox AI Data center Ordinance Energy efficiency Industrial impact ROUND ROCK, Texas — The Round Rock City Council unanimously approved the ordinance approving the Skybox Data Center on Thursday night after hours of public comment. The proposal, which would rezone nearly 30 acres on E. Old Settlers Blvd near N. A.W. Grimes Blvd, has drawn significant attention from neighbors concerned about the facility’s impact on nearby neighborhoods. Some shouted at council members after the final vote. Before the meeting, advocates gathered for a rally and press conference, urging council members to reject the proposed AI data center. “Data centers are being built not because they’re profitable, but because they’re the only thing that billionaires have left to keep up their economy,” one Round Rock advocate said. Speakers raised concerns about water and electricity usage, as well as the site’s proximity to homes and parks. “We’ve seen what happens when industrial facilities replace their neighborhoods,” said Jennie Birkholz, who lives in Round Rock. “The noise kept up at night, the emissions, the constant strain on public health.” ALSO| Safety takes center stage in Dripping Springs as students walk out of class to protest KEYE In a statement to CBS Austin, Skybox said the project is “a single, energy-efficient data center designed to operate quietly and with minimal impact,” adding it would use a closed-loop cooling system that recirculates water, roughly equivalent to about 15 homes. Brad Dushkin, Round Rock’s director of planning, said newer cooling systems require far less water than older facilities. “This helps us use very little water for these projects, whereas older data centers in other parts of the state that rely on evaporative cooling have to use hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of gallons a day of water,” Dushkin said. Skybox also says it is working with Oncor and ERCOT to ensure sufficient power capacity without affecting nearby homes or businesses. Still, some residents questioned whether those assurances are enough. “Why now, why this one?” asked Adrian Shelly of Round Rock. “A residential community is a fine example of a place that doesn’t need to play host to an industrial facility like this.” “It’s not just about one issue; it’s a combination of health, economic, and environmental risks to the neighbors,” said Kim Hollerille, who also lives in Round Rock. The Skybox project is Round Rock’s eighth approved AI data center. The city says two of those are currently operating. Skybox already operates one facility in Pflugerville and a power campus in Hutto. Trending Woman charged after allegedly abandoning 15 cats in S Austin apartment, 2 found dead A woman faces 13 animal cruelty charges after police say she abandoned 15 cats in a South Austin apartment when she moved out in January, leaving two dead and o Llano ISD substitute teacher arrested, accused of improper relationship with student A substitute teacher has been arrested on a felony charge of improper relationship between an educator and a student, the Llano County Sheriff's Office announce Georgetown man sentenced to life in prison for continuous sexual abuse of child A Georgetown man has been sentenced to life in prison after being found guilty of continuous sexual abuse of a child, according to Williamson County officials.A Lehman High School math teacher arrested for improper relationship with student A Lehman High School math teacher was arrested Friday on a charge of improper relationship between an educator and student, Kyle police and Hays CISD announced. TX police can arrest people suspected of entering country illegally, federal court rules A 2023 Texas law that lets state police arrest people suspected of entering the country illegally can go into effect after a federal appeals court on Friday lif NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 5 State cites 22 emergency plan deficiencies at Camp Mystic, gives 45 days to revise 4 APD arrests two suspects accused of stealing 750 lbs of copper 3 Austin police seek help identifying man accused of knife threat near South Lamar 4 Two arrested after 100-mph chase in Fayette County