Data center proposal in Luther, Oklahoma, faces opposition prior to official filing - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Data center proposal in Luther, Oklahoma, faces opposition prior to official filing Residents remain concerned about water and energy use January 06, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say A data center proposal in Luther, Oklahoma, is already facing opposition despite the fact that no official application has been filed with local authorities. Renewable energy firm Beltline Energy is eyeing a 400-acre land parcel near a power plant operated by Oklahoma Gas and Electric, a state-wide utility. An image shared on Facebook as part of Luther residents' anti-data center efforts – Storybook Farms Beltline has been discussing the possibility of constructing a data center since mid-2025. According to reporting done by local outlet Ok Energy Today last December, Luther’s town attorney wrote in her monthly attorney report that she would be “surprised” if Beltline submitted no application in 2026. Although the company has yet to submit an actual application to the Town of Luther, some have already expressed their opposition to the potential project. On Monday, Luther residents gathered at the Luther Community Center to rally against the data center. Concerns were expressed about a potential spike in utility prices, as well as the potential impact on local water supplies. Luther is located to the northeast of Oklahoma City, which is home to most of Oklahoma’s data centers, according to Data Center Map. Although the state does not possess a major data center ecosystem, some developers have committed to building out facilities in the area. Google pledged to invest $9 billion in order to expand its cloud and AI infrastructure in the state back in August of last year, and Blue Owl-backed data center developer Beale Infrastructure began constructing a data center campus worth $1bn outside of Tulsa in November 2025 . More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 15 Apr 2026 Google launches wetland restoration project at its Mountain View campus in California Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 17 Nov 2025 Palantir said to mull data center at Fermi campus in Texas Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era Tags Beltline Energy Luther Oklahoma Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company US Comments