Beale Infrastructure's Project Mustang Data Center Campus outside Tulsa, Oklahoma Beale Infrastructure’s Project Mustang Data Center Campus outside Tulsa, Oklahoma Home » Buildings » Data Center » Beale Infrastructure’s Project Mustang Data Center Campus outside Tulsa, Oklahoma Updated on Jan 26, 2026 Joel Mairura The Project Mustang data center development is a proposed campus being discussed by Beale Infrastructure in the Claremore area of Oklahoma, outside Tulsa. The project is currently at an early, exploratory stage, with the City of Claremore and Claremore Economic Development engaged in preliminary discussions regarding the scope and feasibility of the development within the Claremore Industrial Park. According to a statement from the city, discussions have been ongoing for several months and remain subject to standard site due diligence and feasibility reviews prior to any formal commitments. Beale Infrastructure has also identified Claremore Industrial Park as the intended location for the proposed campus on its website. Furthermore, the campus will include multiple data center buildings that will be constructed in phases. Other data center projects that will be based in Oklahoma is the Project Clydesdale , a $1 billion data center campus that broke ground late last year in Tulsa. Another that is being worked on by Beale despite the pushback its facing is the Project Atlas data center. Scope of Implementation on Beale Infrastructure Project Mustang Data Center Full details on the number of buildings on the Project Mustang data center campus were not shared. However, they would reportedly be air-cooled and the first phase could go live in 2028. Electric service will be provided by the City of Claremore, a wholesale customer of Grand River Dam Authority (GRDA). Claremore is a city and the county seat of Rogers County in northeastern Oklahoma, around 30 miles northeast of Tulsa. Beale Infrastructure, backed by Blue Owl, has been a company that has made commendable strides in data center projects in the U.S. The company is also planning multiple campuses outside Tucson, Arizona, and around Kansas City in De Soto, Kansas. The firm is also planning a development in Coweta, a city southeast of Tulsa in Wagoner County. The proposed Project Atlas development is targeting land south of Coweta and east of Highway 72. Beale has also been named as the firm behind Project Clydesdale, a planned 506-acre data center campus in Owasso, a city northeast of Tulsa. Neither Tulsa nor Oklahoma, more generally, has a major data center ecosystem. Beale infrastructure is in talks to construct another data center campus outside Tulsa in Oklahoma known as Project Mustang. Project Factsheet Beale Infrastructure Project Mustang Data Center Overview Beale Infrastructure in negotiations to build a big data campus called Project Mustang. The suggested site: Claremore industrial park, out of Tulsa, Oklahoma. Developer Name of the company: Beale Infrastructure. Backing: Blue Owl Location Location: Claremore, Rogers County, Oklahoma. About 30 miles north east of Tulsa. Location: Claremore Industrial Park. Project Scope Campus use of multi-building data centers. Staged construction method. Also air cooled data center Precise number of buildings: Undisclosed. Timeline Status of the project: Preliminary negotiations and site due diligence. First Phase Operations: Intended in 2028. Power & Utilities Energy Company: City of Claremore. Power Supplier: Grand River Dam Authority (GRDA). Strategic Context A component of the overall expansion strategy of Beale Infrastructure in the U.S. data center. More Beale developments were to be built in Arizona, Kansas and other areas in Oklahoma. Expected Impact Southern region of the US: North east Oklahoma may serve as a catalyst to data center growth. New investment and work places. Increased regional digital infrastructure. Subscribe to Industry News ▼ Name Email Sectors: Buildings — Affordable Housing — Churches/Mosques/Temples — Data Center — Educational Institutions — Hospital — Hostels — Hotels — Industrial — Malls/Parks — Markets — Museums/Theatres — Offices — Residentials/apartments — Stadiums Business Energy — Battery Storage — coal — Crude oil — Crude Oil Refinery — Electrical Distribution — Gas Pipeline — Geothermal — Hydrogen/Ammonia — Hydropower — LNG — Nuclear — Oil Pipeline — Renewables — Solar — Thermal power — Wind power General Mining Technology Transport — Airports — Bridges — Light Rail — Rail — Roads — Seaports — Tunnel Tunnel Waste management water & sanitation — water Reservoirs — Water Supply Popular Posts Comments Leave a Reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website