CleanSpark acquires 447 acres for second Texas AI data center site - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel CleanSpark acquires 447 acres for second Texas AI data center site Acquisition will support the company’s pivot into HPC workloads January 15, 2026 By Barney Dixon Have your say Cryptomine firm CleanSpark is set to acquire 447 acres in Brazoria County, Texas, to develop a large-scale data center project designed for artificial intelligence and high-performance computing (HPC) workloads. As part of acquisition, CleanSpark will obtain a long-term transmission facilities extension agreement. A CleanSpark campus in Georgia – CleanSpark The company said it will develop a large-scale data center project with transmission-level power enabling a 300MW demand load and potential capacity for further expansion, up to a total of 600MW. The deal is expected to close in the first quarter of 2026. CleanSpark announced a pivot into hosting HPC workloads and AI infrastructure in September last year, facilitated by two $100 million credit facilities. In October, CleanSpark acquired land in Austin County, Texas , for a separate data center campus. The Austin County acquisition covers 271 acres of land, and includes long-term power supply agreements for up to 285MW to support AI, cloud, and enterprise workloads. CleanSpark also entered into a partnership with Submer, an immersion cooling provider, last year as part of its AI data center pivot. "The demand for scaled, AI-native compute continues to accelerate, and access to transmission-level power in strategically advantageous regions has become increasingly constrained," said Matt Schultz, CleanSpark's CEO and chairman. "This agreement underscores our ability to source and secure high-quality power at scale while building regional density that is highly attractive to leading AI and compute customers. As we advance our development pipeline, our focus remains on creating durable infrastructure platforms capable of supporting long-term, multi-phase growth." Jeff Thomas, senior vice president of AI Data Centers at CleanSpark, added: "Clustered capacity is a critical differentiator for customers planning large, multi-campus deployments. “With this addition, we are approaching a gigawatt of total potential capacity in the Houston area. That scale, combined with our flexibility to deploy both in front of and behind the meter, positions us to deliver a true AI factory offering in one of the most important power markets in the country." More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 11 Dec 2025 Microsoft to launch new cloud region in Atlanta, Georgia, in 2027 Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in The Investment & Markets Channel DCD>Market Review | APAC 2025 28 Oct 2025 Data centers to benefit from Japan’s $550bn investment in US infrastructure Episode DCD>Inside Virginia Tags AI CleanSpark Cryptomine HPC Texas Comments