Seven-building data center campus gets preliminary OK from Illinois planning commission - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Seven-building data center campus gets preliminary OK from Illinois planning commission Would be located adjacent to Meta campus July 22, 2024 By Georgia Butler Have your say Preliminary plans for a data center campus in DeKalb, Illinois, have been approved. The DeKalb Planning and Zoning Commission voted unanimously in favor of the project on July 15, reports Shaw Local News Network . Corner of Peace and Gurler roads, Meta's campus can be seen in the bottom left – Google Maps The data center campus will be located on 132 acres of land at Peace and Guler roads. Proposed by Karis Acquisitions, an end user has yet to be shared. Karis Acquisition is part of Karis Capital, an Illinois-based private equity firm specializing in commercial real estate. The concept plan is for seven two-story data center buildings, each spanning 250,000 sq ft (23,226 sqm). In addition, ComEd hopes to construct a 20-acre substation on the site to provide power to the campus and other portions of the region. Attorney Matt Norton, speaking on behalf of Karis Acquisition, said at the July 15 meeting: "Data centers are an enumerated permitted use in several of the industrial districts already. We believe it’s appropriate to add that permitted use to this portion of the [Planned Development-Industrial] district. The existing uses around us are largely industrial or vacant land that is planned in the [Comprehensive] Plan for industrial.” The project is expected to bring around 75 to 100 new jobs per building. The City Council is set to host a public hearing regarding the development on July 22. If the proposal is approved, it would be DeKalb's second data center campus. The proposed campus is nearby to an existing Meta data center campus launched in November 2023 following three years of construction, as well as works currently underway for a Kraft Heinz distribution center. According to City Planner Dan Olson, the new campus would be designed to be cohesive with these existing developments. Illinois' biggest data center market is around Chicago. The Chicago area is one of the largest data center markets in North America, but the availability of server space is low. According to a report from Newmark released earlier this month, data center inventory in the region has increased 35 percent over the last five years, but availability is running at just 1.6 percent. CyrusOne and Microsoft are both developing major campuses in the Chicago area. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 09 Mar 2026 Stream ups planned investment in New York campus to $19.46 billion Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 04 Dec 2025 Micron to exit the consumer memory and storage market in favor of AI data center customers Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags ComEd Gurner and Peace roads Karis Acquisitions Matt Norton DeKalb Illinois Karis Capital DeKalb County Chicago Comments