Kentucky's Oldham County passes 150-day data center moratorium - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Kentucky's Oldham County passes 150-day data center moratorium Will last until November 28 July 14, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say Oldham County in Kentucky has passed a 150-day data center moratorium. The county is located northeast of Louisville, Kentucky’s most populous city. Most of Kentucky’s data centers are located around Louisville. – Google Maps On July 1, the county’s Fiscal Court, which is its legislature and governing board, voted to pass a moratorium on all data center developments. The original draft of the moratorium contained a now-removed exemption for projects currently in development. This means that a data center proposed by Western Hospitality Partners (WHP), titled ‘Project Lincoln’, will be put on hold. WHP initially intended to invest $6 billion in a 600MW facility across 267 acres at 3557 North Highway 53, but as news of the proposal surfaced in March, local opposition forced WHP to withdraw the application in June. WHP then filed a proposal for a smaller, $1.5bn facility south of the original land parcel. Nathan Oberg, the president of We Are Oldham County, a nonprofit organization aiming to regulate data centers, said: “It’s a win for the group. We’ve been working on this for some time. It’s very reasonable for the county to establish a true moratorium, inclusive for all data centers.” DCD has reached out to WHP for comment. WHP has also filed to develop a 1.6 million sq ft (148,645 sqm) data center campus in northeast Pennsylvania. More in North America North America data center report 16 Feb 2026 Nokia claims network CTO from Juniper Networks Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 18 Feb 2026 900 acre expansion to Alabama's "Project Marvel" receives recommendation from planning commission Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive Tags 3557 North Highway 53 Kentucky Louisville Nathan Oberg Oldham County Western Hospitality Partners Comments