Construction begins at Google's second data center campus in Kansas City, Missouri - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Construction begins at Google's second data center campus in Kansas City, Missouri Search and cloud giant confirms involvement in project February 13, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say Google has begun construction of a second data center campus in Kansas City, Missouri. Dubbed "Project Mica," Google has long been linked to the project but only officially confirmed its involvement this week. – Diode Ventures It is set to be on a 500-acre site, off the northeast corner of Interstate 435 and 169 Highway in Clay County, and will host five data centers totaling 1.56 million sq ft (144,928 sqm). The site will total 700MW, according to Port KC . As reported by KSHB , construction is now underway. “We have been proud to call Missouri home since we broke ground on our first data center campus in the state in 2024, which is still under construction,” Trystine Payfer, Google’s regional head of data center public affairs, said. “We’re thrilled to confirm we are continuing our growth with another data center campus in Kansas City.” She added that the data center will "support economic growth for the area, power Google’s services that Missourians and local businesses use daily, and drive scientific breakthroughs that directly impact our customers." Details on the expected timeline of the facility were not provided, but Payfer said typical projects are between 18 and 24 months. Power for the project will be provided by Evergy, though Google has said it will cover the "full energy costs associated with powering both of the Google data center campuses." The company signed an agreement with Evergy under a rate that requires data centers to sign long-term contracts with heavy early cancelation penalties, as well as to pay “all direct costs” for service to the centers, and pay a premium rate to cover the new generation and transmission needs. The Port of Kansas City authorized up to $10 billion in tax breaks for the project in July 2025, which includes a 75 percent abatement on real property taxes for 25 years. Project Mica was originally introduced by Diode Ventures in 2023, but Google reportedly acquired the site in 2024. QTS was originally set to develop in the park, previously known as the Rocky Branch Creek Technology Park, but pulled out over concerns about power availability timelines. This is not the only site Google is seeking to develop in the Kansas City area. The company owns another plot of land in Northland where it is planning a data center campus. October 2023 saw the company file (and later gain permission) to develop up to 1.435 million sq ft (133,316 sqm) of data center floor space on 315 acres in the Hunt Midwest Business Center. The land, located northeast of Parvin Road and Arlington Avenue, was purchased in two transactions, one in 2019 and another in December 2021 . In addition, it has been linked with " Project Kestrel ," a $100bn data center campus also set for the Northland area of the city. Project Kestrel would span six data centers on 379 acres of land. More in Cloud & Hyperscale Accelerating hyperscale deployments in the AI era 15 Dec 2025 Microsoft confirms plans for data center in Grand Rapids, Michigan Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 10 Feb 2026 City of Hilliard challenges Amazon fuel cell project at Ohio data center - report Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Evergy Google Kansas City Missouri Port Authority of Kansas City Project Mica Comments