600MW data center campus proposed outside Kansas City, Kansas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 600MW data center campus proposed outside Kansas City, Kansas Red Wolf coming to Wyandotte County April 04, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A new data center campus has been proposed in Kansas City, Kansas. As reported by BizJournal , Red Wolf DCD Properties LLC has filed plans with the Unified Government of Wyandotte County/Kansas to build a 400-acre data center campus. – Google Maps The project aims to develop a six-building campus, totaling some 600MW across 1.8 million sq ft, as well as two on-site substations. The campus would be bisected by Parralel Parkway – three data center buildings to the north and three buildings to the south – west of the Kansas Speedway. BizJournal lists the address as 13000 Parallel Parkway. UG Economic Development Director Chelsee Chism told BizJournal the plans have not been finalized or submitted to the planning department, but each building is set to be valued at approximately $2 billion, with a total project investment of $12 billion. Greg Kindle, president of the Wyandotte Economic Development Council, described the proposed project as the largest single investment the county has seen. “Once all six are built, that will be generating a little over $13 million a year in a spot that is generating less than $50,000 a year in property taxes,” Kindle said. Little information is available about Red Wolf. That affiliate was previously involved in a filing for a 1.25 million sq ft (116,129 sqm) data center project proposal south of Atlanta in Hampton and a 2.1 million square feet (195,096 sqm) project outside Cordele in Crisp County, Georgia. No end users for any of the projects have been named. More in Construction & Site Selection HP SitePrint for data centers 24 Mar 2026 Leon Capital-backed firm launches new European data center developer Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America North America data center report 07 Jan 2026 AWS data center project tabled in Wilmington, Ohio Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 13000 Parallel Parkway Kansas Kansas City Red Wolf DCD Properties,LLC Wyandotte County Comments