Shreveport Data Center | DartPoints Colocation Solutions SHV01 – Shreveport, LA The Only Tier III-Rated Data Center in Louisiana DartPoints Shreveport Data Center is built for power-intensive workloads, delivering up to 20kW per rack across more than 200 active server and switch racks. Supported by 91,000 feet of power cabling and robust infrastructure, this downtown Shreveport facility is ideal for demanding cloud, data, and managed service environments. As the only Tier III-rated data center in Louisiana, it meets the highest standards for uptime and operational excellence. Let’s get in touch Get in Touch " * " indicates required fields First Name * Last Name * Email * Phone Number * Company Name * State * City * How Can We Help? * --Please Select-- Cloud Colocation Disaster Recovery Other Consent * I give consent to use this information to send additional emails and communication as described in your Privacy Policy. * CAPTCHA Facility Highlights Critical IT Load 0.9 MW Cooling Capacity (Tons) 760 On site Network Providers 9 Data Hall (Sq Ft) 5,600 Service Overview & Certifications Colocation & Cloud Secure cabinet and cage colocation, plus scalable cloud services High-Speed Connectivity 1G to 100G interconnection options Comprehensive Support Managed services and remote hands Enterprise Security Manned facility, smartcard and biometric access, perimeter/internal CCTV Carrier-Neutral Access Multiple providers with diverse fiber entries Industry Recognition & Compliance Inc. 5000 2025; AICPA SOC-compliant for clearpoint analysis and strategic planning confidence Massive Power and Cooling Capacity DartPoints Shreveport Data Center delivers 2.2 MW of utility power, 4,000 kW generator capacity, and 760 tons of cooling making it DartPoints most power-dense facility. With dual-action dry pipe fire suppression, diverse fiber, and a resilient design, it is ideal for advanced enterprise and cloud operations. Tier III Certified for Mission Critical Performance Located in the heart of downtown Shreveport, DartPoints Shreveport Data Center is Louisiana’s only Tier III-rated facility and ranks as the 46th Tier III site certified by the Uptime Institute in the U.S. Purpose-built for performance and reliability, it hosts over 200 IT servers and switch racks supported by 91,000 feet of power cabling delivering up to 20kW per rack. ✕ ⬇ Download Guidelines File info Format File size Resolution We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. Read our Privacy Policy for more information. Ok Privacy policy