PowerHouse files to develop second phase of Spotsylvania data center campus in Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel PowerHouse files to develop second phase of Spotsylvania data center campus in Virginia Company looks to develop three more buildings at campus outside Fredericksburg February 05, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say US data center firm PowerHouse has filed to expand its campus in Spotsylvania County, Virginia. The AREP-owned firm recently filed for a permit with the Norfolk District of the US Army Corps of Engineers for Phase II of its Powerhouse 95 campus. – PowerHouse Data Centers The development would be located off Mills Drive along Cosner Drive, outside Fredericksburg in Cosner’s Corner. According to the application, the second phase would include the development of three buildings and associated infrastructure. The development would impact around 2.3 acres of wetland. Founded in 2022, PowerHouse is a wholly-owned division of American Real Estate Partners. The company has projects in operation and development across Virginia, Texas, North Carolina, Kentucky, Indiana, Nevada, and Pennsylvania. The company’s pipeline reportedly totals more than 6GW of capacity. After acquiring land in January 2024, the company broke ground on the Powerhouse 95 campus in July of the same year , with the first 150MW phase of delivery previously due in Q4 2025. The 145-acre site will host up to seven multi-story buildings totaling up to 300MW and 1.75 million sq ft (162,580 sqm). The company has previously said the site could total 900MW . While Northern Virginia is the data center capital of the world, Spotsylvania County, located south of Culpeper County, isn’t traditionally known for data center development. Amazon, however, is known to be targeting several campuses in the county, while there are several other projects in the works in the area. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 26 Feb 2026 500MW data center campus planned for Bełchatów, Poland Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 12 Jan 2026 Microsoft plans $400m data center in Castroville, Texas Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Cosner’s Corner Fredericksburg PowerHouse PowerHouse 95 PowerHouse Data Centers Spotsylvania County Virginia Comments