Soluna partners with Metrobloks for Texas campus - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Soluna partners with Metrobloks for Texas campus Metrobloks to develop on Soluna-owned Project Kati site January 15, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say HPC and cryptomine data center firm Soluna Holdings has set up a joint venture to build out one of its campuses in Texas. The company this week announced that it signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Metrobloks, a data center developer and operator focused on AI-ready infrastructure, to enter into a co-development partnership to build Project Kati 2. – Soluna The initial development will be a 100MW Critical IT AI and HPC data center at Soluna’s Project Kati 2 (aka MFE-A) campus near McAllen in Willacy County, Texas. This is expected to be the first phase of a larger campus, with an expansion roadmap supporting more than 300MW of total capacity. “Project Kati is our blueprint for Renewable Computing at scale, and this site reflects the kind of infrastructure AI now demands,” said John Belizaire, CEO of Soluna. “This site offers what AI and HPC deployments need most right now: available power, strong renewable resources, and a regulatory and grid environment that supports speed. Our team spent years securing the right location and power position at Kati. By partnering with Metrobloks to lead design, operations, and customer engagement for Kati 2, we can accelerate AI and HPC deployment while staying focused on what we do best, turning constrained renewable energy into productive compute.” Soluna and Metrobloks intend to form a project company to own and operate Project Kati 2. Metrobloks will lead design, development, leasing, and day-to-day operations, including securing pre-lease commitments and managing customer engagement. Soluna will contribute site control, power entitlements, electrical equipment, and development expertise, while both parties will jointly source and structure third-party capital for the project. The site is currently under a (non-binding) letter of intent from a potential neocloud tenant. The parties are working with EDF Power Solutions to source additional power from the Las Majadas wind farm to expand the project. “Customers are telling us the same thing in every market. They need power and capacity now, not years from now,” said Ernest Popescu, CEO, Metrobloks. “Project Kati stands out because the power is both available and scalable. Soluna has already done the hard work to secure a renewable-powered site with room to grow. We’re building on that foundation with AI-ready design and a clear path for customers to scale high-density AI and HPC workloads beyond the initial 100MW.” Soluna broke ground on Project Kati in September 2025. The 166MW Texas wind-powered campus in Willacy County is being developed in two phases. Kati 2 - the 100MW project underway with Metrobloks - is the second phase. Cryptomine firm Galaxy Digital is leasing 48MW of capacity at Kati 1. Metrobloks is a data center developer and operator focused on AI-ready facilities at the metro Edge. The company's CEO, Popescu, was previously a VP of data center development at Iron Mountain and has also held roles at Meta and Amazon. On its website, the company lists projects in Detroit, Michigan; Miami , Florida; Indianapolis , Indiana; Phoenix, Arizona; and Paris, France. Soluna places modular data centers colocated at renewable energy sites to host mining or AI hardware, while also offering its own cloud services. As well as Kati, the company operates or is developing several other campuses, including the 187MW Project Rosa site in Texas; the 50MW Dorothy I A and B, as well as 48MW Dorothy II , again in Texas; Project Sophie, a 25MW data center in Kentucky; and the 2MW Grace site in Texas. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 05 Mar 2026 Google seeks land annexation for data center campus in Linn County, Iowa Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 05 Nov 2025 Harmoni Towers secures $620m in private placement financing Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Cryptomine McAllen Metrobloks Project Kati Soluna Texas Willacy County Comments