Google to build Chesterfield data center Lost CBS 6 on Xfinity? Here's how to keep watching. Local News Actions Facebook Tweet Email Google's $9 billion Virginia investment includes new Chesterfield data center Prev Next Google announces new Chesterfield County data center as part of $9 billion Virginia investment through 2026 to support AI and cloud storage. By: WTVR CBS 6 Web Staff Posted and last updated CHESTERFIELD COUNTY, Va. — Google announced Wednesday it will build a data center in Chesterfield County as part of a $9 billion investment in Virginia through 2026. The tech giant said the new Chesterfield data center and the expansion of centers in Loudoun and Prince William counties are needed to keep up with cloud-based storage and artificial intelligence demands. Virginia Governor Glenn Youngkin touted the investment as beneficial for the state. Gov. Youngkin on newly-announced Google data center in Chesterfield "I'm a big advocate for data centers. Why? They bring enormous investment, they bring a great tax base, they have great jobs to hire people and pay them very, very good salaries. And on top of that, the ecosystem that builds up around our data center community has somewhere between six and 10 more jobs that come with it," Governor Youngkin said. "Do we need to make sure that citizen voices are heard? Yes. Do we need to make sure that local leaders are empowered to make decisions about where they go? Yes. Should that be decided in Richmond? Absolutely not." The Chesterfield data center will be built near Meadowville Technology Park along the 2700 Bermuda Hundred Road. "This project has been many years in the making. We've been working with the state and with the Chesterfield Economic Development Authority and other partners regionally to advance this project for many years," Google spokesperson Amber Tillman said. "When we look for new sites, we look for a strong talent pool, both for construction and operations, as well as available infrastructure and land. Most importantly [we look for] great community partners who want to work with us and who will help us advance our projects quickly." Google data center spokesperson on newly announced data center in Virginia Details like a timeline for the project or the number of jobs it could bring to the area have not yet been announced. Tillman did say Google was in a pre-construction phase right now and an average data center takes Google about 18 to 24 months to develop. This is a developing story. Email the CBS 6 Newsroom if you have additional information to share. 📲: CONNECT WITH US Blue Sky | Facebook | Instagram | X | Threads | TikTok | YouTube This story was initially reported by a journalist and has been converted to this platform with the assistance of AI. Our editorial team verifies all reporting on all platforms for fairness and accuracy. To learn more about how we use AI in our newsroom, click here . Depend on the CBS 6 Weather Authority to Keep You Ahead of the Storm Local News Crime Insider: Person seriously hurt in shooting in Chesterfield neighborhood WTVR CBS 6 Web Staff Trending on WTVR.com New Mechanicsville Kroger Marketplace is now the largest in the Mid-Atlantic Live Nation is offering $30 concert tickets. Here's who you can see in Virginia. Gov. Spanberger has a message for Virginia Republicans after redistricting vote 2 in custody after undercover operation at Virginia spa, investigators say 📱 Download CBS 6 News App The app features breaking news alerts, live video, weather radar, traffic incidents, closings and delays and more. CBS 6 News App for Android CBS 6 News App for iPhone