30 AI data centers to be built at Sulphur Springs campus Skip to content by: Michael Garcia Posted: Sep 20, 2025 / 07:58 PM CDT Updated: Nov 16, 2025 / 05:42 PM CST SHARE SULPHUR SPRINGS, Texas ( KETK ) – East Texas will soon be home to a massive 1,677-acre AI data center campus that’s planned to open in September of 2026. MSB Global broke ground on the multi-million dollar Matrix Data Center Campus on June 13 . The Fort Lauderdale-based company is calling the site a “New Era for Net-Zero AI Infrastructure.” MORE COVERAGE: Concerns over planned AI data centers grow in Sulphur Springs NOW PLAYING “This groundbreaking represents more than just a physical build—it’s the creation of a new economic and technological engine for East Texas,” MSB Global said in June. “With strong local partnerships, zero-carbon energy strategies and the infrastructure to support the world’s most intensive AI training workloads, Matrix is positioned to become a model for sustainable digital infrastructure globally.” The campus development is planned to feature eight individual 100-megawatt(MW) data center buildings during the first phase of construction in 2026. By the end of the third phase of construction in 2028, MSB plans to have a 3,000 MW capacity for data processing across 30 identical 100 MW data center buildings on the campus. Photo courtesy of MSB Global. MSB Global said the project is a public-private partnership between their company, the City of Sulphur Springs and Hopkins County. MSB’s Capacity Report for the campus says they’ll have 35% property tax abatement for their first 10 years in Sulphur Springs. MSB plans to use the data centers to run artificial intelligence programs, to train large-language models and to offer cloud computing services. Their AI data centers will make use of NVIDIA GB300 AI GPU systems and immersion-cooled tanks that use fluids to cool their computers instead of air. The company said their first 100MW building on the campus will be powered by a Bloom Energy fuel cell microgrid. This first data center is scheduled to open in September of 2026. The company then plans to open an additional 100MW data center every month after that, until completion of all 30 data centers. Image courtesy of MSB Global. Image courtesy of MSB Global. Image courtesy of MSB Global. The individual data centers will each be 278,000 square-foot buildings. MSB said the data centers will use a combination of geothermal energy, solar power, batteries and natural gas with carbon capture in order to help reduce the campus’ carbon footprint. MSB Global is also planning to construct several other buildings on the campus like an executive conference center, private tenant offices, an onsite dining hall, recreational facilities, onsite housing for staff, medical and wellness facilities and a day care. Image courtesy of MSB Global. The site of the campus is to the southeast of Sulphur Springs on land that was previously used as the Thermo lignite coal mine . According to the Texas Tribune , the land was donated to the City of Sulphur Springs by the Luminant energy company after the mine closed in 2018. MSB said they plan to invest over $140 million in the project and infrastructure improvements on nearby roads and internet lines. In total, MSB said the project could bring up to $18 billion of community investments to Sulphur Springs. To learn more about the campus, visit MSB Global online . You can now stream KETK and FOX51 News live 24/7 on your smart TV with KETK+ , our brand-new app! No antenna, cable, or satellite needed— watch for free, anytime. Just download it on your Roku, Apple TV, or Fire TV and start streaming. Add as preferred source on Google ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel LATEST VIDEO NOW PLAYING KETK Plus App 60-sec Instructional Video LEARNING THE HEIMLICH: How to save a life before … Bullard, Winnsboro ISD get $1.28M grant for autism … More Videos Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now Daily News SIGN UP NOW Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now KETK Breaking News SIGN UP NOW Trending Right Now DPS: Longview ISD teacher driving wrong way causes … Tornado Watch issued for parts of East Texas ETX man sentenced to life for killing girlfriend, … Students ingest suspected drug‑laced gummies How to save a life before EMS arrives to help no iframe support! Check This Out KETK presents TJC’s Salute to Seniors Mother’s Day Giveaway Nominate an Athlete of the Week Sloan Firm: What Matters to You Matters to Us Don't Miss East Texas Giving Day 2026: Northeast Texas Community … East Texas Giving Day 2026: Our Harbor of Hope for … Pets Fur People: Meet Max East Texas Giving Day 2026: Bethesda Health Clinic East Texas Giving Day 2026: Search Ministries