Proposed $12 billion data center in St. Joseph County gets unfavorable recommendation Skip to content Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, Ind. (WNDU) - There’s talk of a yet another data center in the New Carlisle area , but it’s received an unfavorable recommendation from some St. Joseph County officials. The Area Plan Commission voted unanimously (7-0) against the proposed data center at a meeting on Tuesday afternoon. Prior to the vote, there was an uproar from the community — and even some tears — as people stood up against the idea of losing their property to a new data center. The newly proposed data center would convert existing agricultural land to industrial. That land is already occupied by about 16 single-family homes and two family farms. The two-phase plan would cost $12 billion, which would be the largest project investment in the state of Indiana on record. During public comment, one of the few supporters was Bill Schalliol, the economic development director for St. Joseph County. Schalliol acknowledged some kinks that need to be worked out. “From an economic standpoint and what this will do in the area we think this is a good fit,” Schalliol said. “We think these are great jobs; we think they will provide more construction jobs. Obviously, we’ve got about 5,000 people working at the sites right now between Amazon and GM, so it will provide a continuation of construction in this area. So again, we think this is a great project.” A map of the proposed data center site just north of New Carlisle. (WNDU) But overwhelming disagreement came from the rest of the room about concerns of unknowns, including the amount of water and electricity used for this data center, where it will be sourced from and how this will affect income taxes in the area. “And I’m sick of listening to, well we’re going to be directly impacted us 16 people around the property. This will impact everybody in St. Joseph County, the tax base, the rest of us in the town, the other 3,200 of us in Olive Township and New Carlisle,” said New Carlisle resident Dan Caruso. “Press pause. Take a breath. You should be used to that, you’ve had months of it,” added New Carlisle resident John Daley. “Take a close look at what’s already passed through this group, yours or your predecessors, and is already in motion. Talk to people on all sides of the experience you’ve already unleashed.” Some residents say they’re scared about the safety of New Carlisle students who take the bus to and from school. “I don’t know if you’ve ever driven on (U.S.) 20 when school is picking up students or letting them off, but on 20 they just pull over on the side of the road. They don’t put their flashers on, nobody stops. And then they have to pull back out onto the side of the road. people going 15, 20 miles per hour, people flying down, we’re going to have children killed,” said a New Carlisle resident. Despite the commission’s 7-0 vote, it will still go to the St. Joseph County Council for final approval. Copyright 2025 WNDU. All rights reserved. Most Read One hospitalized after crash on U.S. 20 Bypass Notre Dame unveils 2026 edition of ‘The Shirt’ Man hospitalized after being thrown from motorcycle in Elkhart County Nonverbal student suffers carpet burn after being dragged by school worker, authorities say Two arrested in multi-agency human and sex trafficking operation in Roseland New Indiana law to use levelized billing to prevent electric bill increases during extreme cold, heat Illinois passes Chicago Bears stadium bill, but team says it’s not enough Two injured in two separate shootings in South Bend Latest News Notre Dame tight end Eli Raridon drafted 95th overall in NFL Draft by New England Patriots Notre Dame wide receiver Malachi Fields drafted 74th overall in NFL Draft by New York Giants Notre Dame unveils 2026 edition of ‘The Shirt’ Man seriously injured after high-speed chase ends in crash in Berrien County Matt competes in "Dancing with Our Stars" Locals express data center concerns Mishawaka fire concerns, Miami County inmate death update, and latest with Iran Notre Dame tight end Eli Raridon drafted 95th overall in NFL Draft by New England Patriots