NTT secures four data center leases in US totaling 115MW - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel NTT secures four data center leases in US totaling 115MW Company signs on customers in Chicago, Gainesville, and Sacramento March 04, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say NTT has secured large-scale leases across three data center sites in the US. NTT Data this week announced its Global Data Centers business has secured four “substantial” capacity commitments across campuses in Gainesville, Virginia; Chicago, Illinois; and Sacramento, California. NTT's Gainesville campus in Virginia secures a customer – US Army Corps of Engineers | NTT The agreements, totaling 115MW, have been secured with hyperscale platforms and large enterprises. Commitments include a 90MW+ deployment with a major hyperscale provider, as well as nearly 20MW contracted by three enterprise organizations. Further details have not been shared. “These new commitments speak to the confidence that clients place in NTT Global Data Centers to support their most ambitious digital initiatives,” said Doug Adams, CEO and president, NTT Global Data Centers. “As compute requirements continue to accelerate, organizations are seeking infrastructure that can evolve at the same pace. Our ability to pair compliance, agility, and future‑ready design is increasingly a decisive factor for customers looking to stay ahead of demand. These needs are not just limited to hyperscalers — enterprise organizations across every sector also require high‑performance platforms to serve their customers reliably.” NTT said that it has launched ten facilities across key regions in North America, EMEA, and APAC in the last year, totaling more than 370MW of new IT capacity. The company aims to invest more than $10 billion by 2027, expanding its portfolio. The company operates a 266,000 sq ft (24,712 sqm), 52.7MW campus in Sacramento, totaling three buildings. NTT’s VA11 facility in Gainesville is set to total 96MW across 300,000 sq ft. The data center, at 7251 Grove Hill Blvd, is due live in early 2027. In total, the company is planning a 336MW campus on the site. In Chicago, NTT operates three data centers totaling 200MW in the Itasca area of the city. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Colocation & Wholesale NTT Global Data Centers Guide to India data center expansion 29 Oct 2025 AirTrunk signs $3bn deal with Humain to develop data centers in Saudi Arabia 24 Nov 2025 Centra breaks ground on second Reno data center More in Enterprise 31 Mar 2026 London Stock Exchange opts for Dell Technologies for on-prem infrastructure and private cloud platform 18 Nov 2025 Starlink lands in-flight connectivity deal with Emirates 11 Nov 2025 Former IBM, HP, Ford, Xerox data centers for sale around Michigan and Kentucky Tags California Chicago Gainesville Illinois NTT NTT Data NTT GDC NTT Global Data Centers Prince William County Sacramento Virginia Comments