US Signal acquires data center in Indianapolis, Indiana - DCD Home News Investment / M&A / Financing US Signal acquires data center in Indianapolis, Indiana Company takes over former Rack Bunker facility December 09, 2023 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say US Signal has acquired a data center in Indianapolis, Indiana. The company – which provides cloud, network, and data center services – this week announced the acquisition of its second data center in Indianapolis. Terms of the deal were not disclosed. – Google Maps The 9,600-square-foot (890 sqm), 2MW, single-story facility is located at 6325 Morenci Trail. Once upgrades are complete, the company said the facility will have 300 available cabinets, and feature US Signal's Cloud Pod offering, enabling private and multi-tenant cloud hosting. The company said the site has multiple acres for expansion, and US Signal plans to add up to 600 additional cabinets as demand dictates. "We are seeing increased demand for off-premises services and hybrid cloud solutions," says US Signal COO John White. "The Morenci data center will allow us to serve more customers in the emerging Indianapolis market while realizing another step in our five-year plan to build additional digital infrastructure in our Midwest footprint." “We are committed to building out our digital infrastructure over the next five years,” he added. “We're building cloud, we're building fiber, and we're building data centers all to help our customers.” 6325 Morenci Trail was previously operated by local colocation provider Rack Bunker. Founded in 2019, the facility was the company’s only data center, though it had planned to expand into Digital Crossroad’s DX-1 data center in Chicago, Illinois. Before that, the site was previously occupied by disaster recovery firm BlueLock, which was acquired by managed service provider InterVision in 2018. US Signal told DCD it acquired the facility and land from the 'previous ownership group,' and did not acquire the Rack Bunker business. US Signal said the Tier III-quality facility is SSAE 18-audited, HIPAA-compliant, and PCI-certified, and can serve as a secondary disaster recovery site or as a part of a hybrid IT strategy. Founded in 2001, US Signal is a mid-west US IT solutions provider that operates its own wholly-owned 9,500-mile fiber network. The company was acquired by Igneo Infrastructure Partners (part of First Sentier Investors Group) earlier this year. The company operates facilities in Detroit, Grand Rapids (x2), and Southfield in Michigan; Oak Brook, Illinois; Indianapolis and South Bend, Indiana; and Madison, Wisconsin. More in Investment / M&A / Financing North America data center report: Year-end 2025 20 Apr 2026 Archangel Lightworks secures $13.57m in Series A funding to scale optical downstream technology Episode DCD>Inside APAC More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 27 Mar 2026 Amazon’s Trainium product lead has left the company – report Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 6325 Morenci Trail Marion County Rack Bunker Indianapolis Indiana US Signal Comments