Data Center Zoning Public Information Page Skip to main content Search Popular Searches: Agendas & Minutes Permits & Forms Jobs Services Forms All of City of Maysville Services Forms All of City of Maysville Data Center Zoning Public Information Page Print this page Text resize Increase font size Decrease font size Welcome to the Maysville/Mason County Data Center Zoning Public Information Page! Below you will find information relevant to the data center zoning processes, including meeting dates, times, and locations. This page will be updated on an as-needed basis. Contact Planning & Zoning Administrator George Larger at 606-564-2719 or georgelarger@cityofmaysvilleky.gov with questions. Upcoming Meetings Wednesday, April 22nd, 2026 @ 5:30 p.m. - Mason County Joint Planning Commission special meeting - Mason County Public Library - 218 East Third Street in Maysville - The Planning Commission will discuss the proposed data center development plan, approve the rezoning findings of fact, and enter all related documents into the record. To access the data center applicant/developer's application, click here . To access the data center applicant/developer's development plan, click here . To access a high-resolution site plans and maps for the proposed data center campus development, click here and here . Past Meetings Wednesday, April 1st, 2026 @ 5:30 p.m. - Mason County Joint Planning Commission special meeting - Mason County Public Library - 218 East Third Street in Maysville - Having held a two-part public hearing, the Planning Commission discussed and voted on the proposed data center rezoning. Wednesday, March 25th, 2026 @ 5:30 p.m. and Thursday, March 26th, 2026 @ 5:30 p.m. - Mason County Joint Planning Commission special meetings - Fields Auditorium - MCTC - 1755 US 68 Business in Maysville - The Planning Commission held a two-part public hearing, during which the public had the opportunity to comment on the proposed rezonings of 28 properties in Mason County consisting of approximately 2,080 acres for a data center campus. Please see the following rules for the March 25th and March 26th public hearing: The public hearing will NOT be livestreamed. The applicant/developer will make the first presentation and will have unlimited time to speak. Groups headquartered in Mason County will have 10 minutes to speak, and must designate one speaker. All groups must register with Administrative Official George Larger via email at georgelarger@cityofmaysvilleky.gov no later than one week prior to the commencement of the hearing. Individuals who desire to speak at the hearing will be required to list their names and addresses on a sign-up sheet. Each individual who is a participating property owner or an adjoining property owner of the project site will be given six minutes to speak. All other individuals and groups not headquartered in Mason County will be given three minutes to speak. There will be no opportunity to speak a second time. Each individual will be asked if they have been sworn in and if they are a participating property owner or adjoining property owner. Written comments that are signed under oath and notarized may be submitted in lieu of testimony or to support testimony. Such comments may not be longer than 10 one-sided pages, double-spaced in 12-point Times New Roman font, with 1-inch margins. Written comments may be submitted to the attention of George Larger at the Maysville Municipal Building, 216 Bridge Street, Maysville, KY 41056 by hand delivery or emailed as an attachment to georgelarger@cityofmaysvilleky.gov , until 4:30 p.m. on March 19 th , or mailed to such address if postmarked no later than March 19 th . Noncompliant comments will not be considered as evidence in the record of the public hearing. Notaries in Kentucky can administer oaths, and a compliant document will have the following phrase or similar at the end, filled in by a notary: “The foregoing was subscribed and sworn to before me, and any factual assertions made therein were verified to be true to the best of the declarant’s knowledge and belief, by __________, who is personally known to me or who proved their identity to me, this the ____ day of ______, 2026.” Questions intended for the applicant/developer from attendees may be submitted to the attention of George Larger at the Maysville Municipal Building, 216 Bridge Street, Maysville, KY 41056 by hand delivery or emailed as an attachment to georgelarger@cityofmaysvilleky.gov prior to the public hearing, or may be collected in writing during the public hearing; questions must be signed by the individual submitting the questions. Submitted questions will be asked at the discretion of the Planning Commission. The following groups are registered to speak March 25th: Friends of Minerva - Janet Garrison We Are Mason County, Inc. - Max Moran and/or Hank Graddy Friday, February 27th, 2026 @ 9:00 a.m. - Mason County Fiscal Court special meeting related to the adoption of the Mason County Joint Planning Commission's recommendation regarding a data center zoning text amendment proposal. The Mason County Fiscal Court had a second reading of an ordinance adopting an amended version of the JPC's recommendation, formally adopting it to regulate data centers in unincorporated Mason County. Tuesday, February 17th, 2026 @ 9:00 a.m. - Mason County Fiscal Court special meeting related to the adoption of the Mason County Joint Planning Commission's recommendation regarding a data center zoning text amendment proposal. The Mason County Fiscal Court had a first reading of an ordinance adopting an amended version of the JPC's recommendation. Please see the following rules for the February 17th and February 27th Mason County Fiscal Court special meetings : At the February 10 regular meeting, Fiscal Court will establish guidelines for holding first and second readings on Recommendations of the Joint Planning Commission (JPC) on the application for the text amendment. It will be recommended that two Special Meetings be held on February 17 for First Reading and on February 27 for Second Reading and Adoption. At the meeting on February 17, 2026, the Fiscal Court will adopt the record from the public hearings held by the JPC as the Fiscal Court’s record. No additional evidence will be taken. SEE City of Louisville v. McDonald, 470 S.W.2d 173 (Ky. 1971). SEE ALSO Res. Dev. Corp. v. Campbell Cnty. Fiscal Ct., 543 S.W.2d 225 (Ky. 1976)(no new evidence to beconsidered outside the JPC record.) At the meeting on February 17, 2026, the Court will consider argument-style presentations from proponents of data centers and from opponents of data centers. Each side shall be permitted 30 minutes for its presentation of argument or summation of the evidence before the JPC and to recommend a course of action for the Fiscal Court. Objections may be made by the Fiscal Court to evidence or materials which are not included in the JPC record. The 30 minutes may be used by one speaker for each side, or divided among multiple speakers. The presenters for the proponents of data centers were determined by attorney Tanner Nichols of Frost Brown Todd, which represents the prospect considering Mason County for a data center project. The presenters for the opponents were determined in communications with attorney Hank Graddy, who represents the organization “We Are Mason County”. Following the arguments or summations of both sides, the Fiscal Court may consider recommendations of consultants, staff members or others, such recommendations to be made on the record during the public hearing. At the February 17, 2026 meeting, the proposed ordinance will be given first reading. At the February 17, 2026 meeting, the Fiscal Court by motion will consider adopting or deviating from the recommendations of the JPC. At the meeting on February 27, 2026, the ordinance adopting a text amendment will be given second reading and considered for adoption. Wednesday, February 4th, 2026 @ 5:3