PRSM group proposes 300 acres farmland rezoned for data center in Preble County, Ohio Skip to content by: Evan Bales , Kiersten Riedford , Emily Lewis Posted: Sep 2, 2025 / 05:38 PM EDT Updated: Sep 2, 2025 / 10:26 PM EDT SHARE DAYTON, Ohio ( WDTN ) — Preble County is looking to create the Miami Valley’s next big data center. Nearly 300 acres of farmland just south of I-70 could potentially become the site of a new data center. Following months of planning, zoning officials held a public hearing Tuesday to hear from residents on the potential change. PRSM Group wants 300 acres of farmland for data center The proposal was first conceived in May by PRSM, a land development company. The project proposes rezoning approximately 300 acres over two parcels of land — currently zoned for agricultural use — to limited industrial use, which would allow for a new data center to be built. Brad Kramer, director of land management and use in Preble County, said these rezoning proposals are happening nationwide as more and more data centers pop up across the U.S. “We’re going to see these types of requests more and more in rural areas,” said Kramer. PRSM’s president told 2 NEWS the data center will bring more jobs to the region, give grant money to the nearby school district and bring in tax dollars. “We’ll hopefully be able to show that it will deliver on all the values promised,” said Patrick Scanlon, PRSM president. It’s unclear if there’s a company lined up for this opportunity, but developers told 2 NEWS it could be any of the big tech companies, like Apple, Amazon, Google and more. “And if we can’t find the right buyer, we’ll rezone to agriculture,” said Scanlon. Preble County residents have voiced concerns online and at various meetings about power and water usage by a new data center. Scanlon claims the contract they’ve drawn up with the county requires the data center to comply with several energy regulations. Preble County residents speak out against the data center proposal NOW PLAYING A public hearing was held on Tuesday night, where residents crowded into the room to speak on the proposal. There were so many people in attendance, administrators had to open a wall of windows for people to hear the meeting from the hallway. 2 NEWS even saw some residents bring in lawn chairs to create more seating. Many residents voiced concerns, saying they don’t want to see the local environment impacted or increases to their energy bills. “Data centers use millions of gallons of water every day. Where are they going to get that water? I see stories across the country about the data centers wrecking people’s water and their electric bills,” one resident said to 2 NEWS. Preble County leaders say residents voicing their opinions is especially important for big projects like this. “If there’s ever a case that has grave concern for the residents, then I think you can feel confident that the various commissioners on the boards will listen to your comments and take them into account, said Kramer. “If you’re strongly in favor or if you’re strongly against a proposal, please take the time to come and voice your opinion.” The proposal was also found to be unpopular with the Preble County Planning Commission. Back in August, the proposal went before the planning commission, where it was denied by a unanimous 11-0 vote. This was the second to last public hearing on the proposal. The next step of the rezoning process is a public hearing with the Preble County Board of Commissioners on Oct. 1. Add as preferred source on Google ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Latest Video from 2 NEWS NOW PLAYING Cat wins wackiest name award CareSource retroactive claims leave providers in … Trotwood neighbors complain of vicious dogs $291k cancer care investment 19th annual Trash Bash Investigation ongoing after reported shooting in … Woman reportedly shot in the arm in Dayton Military tribute banner program Police concerns in Gratis Fire crews respond to RV fire Bringing awareness to vision Dayton officer rescues 2 from house fire Mother, boyfriend arraigned in alleged child endangerment … Ansonia man pleads not guilty in murder of cheerleading … Caleb Flynn makes final court appearance before start … Murder charge filed in Hershall Creachbaum case Man pleads guilty to fatal Springfield shooting Resonant Sciences expanding in Beavercreek with 7th … ‘Hiring Our Heroes’ career fair connects veterans … NAACP supports Henderson More Videos Latest stories from NewsNation Southeast Missing scientists: Death of NASA engineer Joshua … Missing Body of one missing USF student found as suspect … Missing Nancy Guthrie may have coughed up blood during kidnapping: … Entertainment Prince Harry & Meghan’s move draws heat on Queen … Politics Minn. lawmakers demand records after Rep. Ilhan Omar … Missing ‘He’s a bad cop’: Official on sheriff in Nancy Guthrie … Find out how you can watch Latest stories from The Hill Burgum previews Reflecting Pool’s new ‘American flag … Florida Democrat ‘appalled’ by report 31 sloths died … Amnesty, ACLU issue warning on US travel ahead of … DOJ seeks to bring back firing squads, electric chairs … What to know about events marking America’s 250th Violent tornado tears through Oklahoma town, damaging … More from The Hill Trending Stories The Old Spaghetti Factory closing sole Ohio location CareSource’s Medicaid recouping claims endanger mental … Live 2026 NFL Draft tracker: Cincinnati Bengals Thunderstorms late today, with a nice weekend to … Trotwood residents fear for safety after recent dog … Don't Miss Rabbit Hole Books reopens in Dayton after 70-day … Fraze adds Jessica Simpson, ZZ Top to summer lineup Mariah the Scientist coming to Fraze Pavilion Kings Island’s ‘Invertigo’ to reopen in 2026 Centerville to announce new addition at Stubbs Park Latest News Videos NOW PLAYING Trotwood neighbors complain of vicious dogs Roommate arrested in standoff after missing USF student’s … Missing USF student’s remains found on Howard Frankland … CareSource retroactive claims leave providers in … Practical Car Features That Save You Time and Money More Videos