Cloverleaf retracts pre-development agreement for Michigan data center, council votes to block water supply - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Cloverleaf retracts pre-development agreement for Michigan data center, council votes to block water supply Dundee data center faces uncertain future October 08, 2025 By Sebastian Moss Have your say Powered land company Cloverleaf Infrastructure has retracted its pre-development agreement for a data center in Dundee Township, Michigan. Set on a 750-acre site, the facility had been greenlit in a pre-development agreement, but the project saw significant local pushback. – Cloverleaf Infrastructure At a meeting this week in the Dundee Village office, dozens turned up to protest the project. "They all stopped me and told me that they do not want it," Tim Bordine, Dundee Village president, said to WTOL11 . "There are very, very few that would be okay with it." Bordine added: "The information that we've listened to has been 95 percent wrong." At the meeting, the council voted for no involvement with the data center. "They needed water from us and everything from Monroe [County], we're just going to say no now." Ahead of the vote, Cloverleaf said that it pulled its pre-development agreement from approval and expressed regret over how the project was handled. "Our initial thought, along with the Monroe Business Alliance, was to execute the pre-development agreement and begin community engagement while we worked through the details of the agreement," development principal Michael Evans said in a letter to the Village council. "In hindsight, Cloverleaf should have done more public communication and listening prior to bringing this forward in order to save the Township and Village staff from the negative press and general misinformation and concerns. We want to provide clear communication and also seek feedback from the community so that we can incorporate information into our agreements and documents. "Thank you for the willingness to put your necks out there approving the agreement." DCD has contacted the company for more details on what went wrong, and whether there are plans for the project to be picked up in the future. Cloverleaf, which raised $300 million last year, is developing sites across the US to support large-scale data center development. Among them is a huge campus in Georgia , alongside a large plot in Port Washington , Wisconsin, which Vantage is reportedly interested in taking over. More in The Data Center Construction Channel DCD Digital Campaign Package 05 Jan 2026 Recap: The data center stories you missed over the Christmas period Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive Tags Cloverleaf Infrastructure Dundee Township Dundee Village Michael Evans Michigan Tim Bordine Comments