Water use figures unveiled for controversial New Mexico data center - El Paso Matters Skip to content Share using Native tools Share Copied to clipboard Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Nextdoor (Opens in new window) Nextdoor Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit BorderPlex Digital Assets included this rendering of Project Jupiter in a presentation to a legislative committee in New Mexico in July. (BorderPlex Digital Assets) 10:30 a.m. Sept. 12 : This story has been updated to include information and statements provided by El Paso Electric. SUNLAND PARK, New Mexico – Developers behind Project Jupiter, the proposed $165 billion data center campus in Santa Teresa, New Mexico, shared numbers about its water consumption publicly for the first time Tuesday at a rowdy community meeting – figures that, if accurate, suggest the facility’s usage would be comparable to other industrial operations in the area. The campus, which would include four data center facilities, would feature a “closed-loop” system of pipes to cool the computer servers inside the buildings, which developers say would require a one-time fill-up before the water is recycled over and over. Filling up the four data centers would require about 10 million gallons of water, and the developers said the campus’ ongoing consumption would be 7.2 million gallons of water every year that it’s operating. “We understand the water scarcity issues here,” said Kevin Greer, a director at the company Stack Infrastructure, which would build and operate the data centers. The meeting was the third of five forums that backers of Project Jupiter held to let the public ask questions and learn about the project. The next two meetings are Wednesday and Thursday this week. The Doña Ana County Board of Commissioners will take a final vote on the project Friday, Sept. 19, in Las Cruces. Greer spoke during the public meeting at the Doña Ana Community College campus in Sunland Park. He said Stack has designed and built three data centers that utilize the same closed-loop system in Oregon, Chicago and Virginia. Several people involved with Project Jupiter sat on stage at the Sunland Park campus of Doña Ana Community College and answered questions from residents, Tuesday, Sept. 9, 2025. (Diego Mendoza-Moyers/El Paso Matters) The closed-loop system “is not a new technology. It’s well-proven. We have experience designing and building that,” Greer said. The project would use a daily average of 20,000 gallons when it’s up-and-running, with a maximum consumption capped at 60,000 gallons in a day, according to figures provided by the developers. By comparison, El Paso Water supplies about 221,000 customers with 110 million gallons of water per day on average, and the Marathon Petroleum refinery in Central El Paso used an average of 1.1 million gallons daily last year, according to El Paso Water. A Meta-owned data center that’s set to be built in El Paso has an agreement to use 750,000 gallons daily initially, although El Paso Water officials have said the facility is unlikely to reach that level of usage. The Camino Real Regional Utility Authority, or CRRUA, the New Mexico water utility that serves Sunland Park and Santa Teresa, said it produced an average of 2.6 million gallons of water daily from its wells in March. A map shows where the $165 billion data center campus — dubbed “Project Jupiter” would be located in Santa Teresa, New Mexico. (Doña Ana County Board of Commissioners) Community members at Tuesday’s standing-room only meeting shouted concerns over water usage and expressed other worries about the massive project that residents in Doña Ana County only became aware of in recent weeks. Residents said the lack of trust on display from Sunland Park and Santa Teresa residents toward the project’s developers stems from the fact people living in the area for years have lived with low-quality drinking water supplied by CRRUA that has contained unsafe levels of arsenic. The bad drinking water is the result of operator failures and mismanagement at the utility, according to a report issued by the New Mexico Environment Department, as well as long-running underinvestment in the area’s system of water infrastructure. The county government and city of Sunland Park oversee CRRUA, but they’re splitting the utility up and each forming new water providers for Sunland Park and the surrounding area. The utility under new leadership has reported improved water quality over the last year, and earlier this week said tests it conducted showed water with levels of arsenic below the allowable threshold . But the lack of trust persists. The deal between Doña Ana County and developers with BorderPlex Digital Assets would likely run for 30 years. In exchange for not having to pay property taxes, the company said it would provide about $300 million in payments to the county over the term of the deal. After 30 years, the company’s shareholders – not the county – would take ownership. The project’s developers said that in addition to that $300 million, they would provide “tens of millions” of dollars to improve water infrastructure in southern Doña Ana County. “We need clean water in Sunland right now,” Jose Saldaña, a Sunland Park resident, said during the meeting. “We need the help here.” PROJECT JUPITER DATA CENTER Austin-based company says it plans to spend $165 billion on New Mexico data center campus near El Paso. Here’s what to know. August 27, 2025 October 20, 2025 Podcast: Concerns about water, power and oversight arose over planned $165 billion Doña Ana data center. Here’s what we know. September 2, 2025 October 20, 2025 At times, Saldaña and many other audience members shouted that county officials’ priority above all should be ensuring safe drinking water for residents in Santa Teresa and Sunland Park. “That’s exactly the plan – to invest in clean water first,” said Stephen Lopez, a recently appointed assistant county manager. “This funding source is very important to being able to quickly make improvements.” Other people at the meeting suggested the project came out of the blue and is progressing rapidly. There hasn’t been enough time for the community to understand the project’s implications and whether it truly won’t be an unsustainable drag on the area’s water and electricity resources, others said. “This is a great PowerPoint presentation. It’s nice and fluffy, and it says nothing,” one resident told a panel of the project’s developers as they sat on a stage. “We don’t have the water here.” Organizers protest a proposed $165 billion data center campus that BorderPlex Digital Assets wants to build in Santa Teresa, New Mexico. (Diego Mendoza-Moyers / El Paso Matters) Project Jupiter is backed by a collection of companies, mainly Austin-based BorderPlex Digital Assets, but also Stack and construction and infrastructure firms such as Orion Digital Infrastructure. Who exactly is putting up $165 billion – a sum that would be among the biggest private investments ever made – to fund the project’s construction is unclear because the developers haven’t identified the eventual tenant of the data centers. But only a handful of global technology companies, such as Oracle, Meta, Alphabet, OpenAI and Microsoft, have the financial might to develop such a sprawling and costly data center campus. “So, putting a deal like this together is – we have to bring about eight different entities together,” said Miguel Fernandez, an El Paso businessman and co-founder of the fiber company Flo Networks, which will build the fiber optic cable to serve the data centers. He’s also listed on the “leadership” page of BorderPlex Digital’s website. “It’s not quite as straightforward as you might think, because you have the data center operators, you have a construction company, you have the compute power company, you have the software company, you have the developer. And then, on top of that, you have the government,” Fernandez s