Austin-Area Town to Decide Fate of Proposed $850M Data Center - Connect CRE Texas US Real Estate News / Texas Real Estate News More Regions and Sectors National Canada Atlanta & Southeast Boston & New England California Chicago & Midwest Florida & Gulf Coast New York & Tri-State Phoenix & Southwest Seattle & Northwest Texas Washington DC & Mid-Atlantic Global Apartments Digital Infrastructure Distressed Assets Finance Healthcare Hospitality Industrial Net Lease Office Opportunity Zones Retail Senior Housing Student Housing Weekender CRE Insider Video Connect News Commercial Real Estate news for every market and every facet, every day. Connect CRE Events Live and virtual events bringing together the best of information and networking. CRE Industry Events Live industry events. Connect Creative A full service marketing and PR agency. Connect Classroom Offering CRE focused continuing education courses on demand. ApartmentBuildings.com Is a dynamic platform to search for, list and promote multifamily listings nationwide. Connect Awards View the A-list of commercial real estate & submit nominations. Connect Media Kit Advertise, Promote, Attend, Create – Work with Connect. Loan tuitive Find the right lender for your loan. About Connect Meet the team behind the machine and taste a little of the secret sauce. States We Cover Cities We Cover Companies We Cover Get RSS Feed Submit a Press Release Terms and Conditions Sitemap Connect News Your source for daily news covering CRE transactions and trends. Stay informed on national, regional and property sector news that matters to your business. Connect Classroom Offering on-demand online courses that provide continuing education credits for brokers, attorneys, appraisers and architects. Select from easily accessible video and written courses that cover a variety of CRE topics. Find Your Course STAY INFORMED News when you need it. All our Breaking News, right to your inbox. Sub Markets Texas Austin Dallas-Fort Worth Houston-Galveston San Antonio State of Texas Property Sectors Apartments CRE Insider Digital Infrastructure Distressed Assets Finance Healthcare Hospitality Industrial Infrastructure Net Lease Office Opportunity Zones Retail Senior Housing Student Housing Weekender Topics Lease Sale/Acquisition Development Financing People Economy Policy/Gov't Recruitment Filter Texas CRE News In Your Inbox. Sign up for Connect emails to stay informed with CRE stories that are 150 words or less. Texas + Austin + Digital Infrastructure | August 29, 2025 By: Mike Boyd Austin-Area Town to Decide Fate of Proposed $850M Data Center A three-member development team hopes to build an $850 million data center campus in Jarrell, a town of under 2,000 people outside Austin. The Austin Business Journal reports that the development team consists of Prominent Property Group, Savannah Developers and Power Infrastructure Partners. At full buildout, the Mesones Data Center campus would have 200 megawatts of available power generated using a combination of natural gas and grid power. Water will be recycled, but the developers acknowledge that some water will evaporate. 400 to 450 construction jobs will be created, and up to 50 operations jobs when completed. Others involved in the project include MatkinHoover as the engineering firm and Central Texas Economic Consultants. Should the town okay the land use matter, the developers will try to obtain tax abatements. The project is part of a growing trend of data centers proliferating throughout Central Texas. In recent years, 20 data center projects have been identified in the greater Austin area. Connect Inside The Story Savannah Developers About Mike Boyd Mike covers our Texas and Phoenix/Southwest regions. He is a veteran news reporter who spent 10 years in radio and television news, mostly in Tucson, Arizona. Following his career in the media, he spent ten years as a communications executive for a publicly traded development company. Mike is married with three boys and three Huskies. Order Reprints ◦Development |Development Texas | Austin Digital Infrastructure Austin-Area Town to Decide Fate of Proposed $850M Data Center Mike Boyd August 29, 2025 Load More