US Department of the Air Force accepting proposals for AI data centers in military bases - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel US Department of the Air Force accepting proposals for AI data centers in military bases Fifteen land parcels available for lease October 16, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say The US Department of the Air Force (DAF) is accepting proposals for AI data centers in military bases. On October 15, the DAF published a Request for Proposal (RFP) calling for “qualified entities interested in leasing from the Government one or more underutilized parcels of land for private commercial data use” on five Air Force bases. The five parcels available at Edwards Air Force Base, California – US Department of the Air Force Fifteen land parcels are available for lease. These include: a 122-acre and a 152-acre site in Arnold Air Force Base, Tennessee; seven sites ranging between 100 and 560 acres at Edwards Air Force Base, California; a 73-acre and a 120-acre site Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, New Jersey; a 300-acre site at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, Arizona; and three sites ranging between 30 and 135 acres at Robins Air Force Base, Georgia. The government previously published a Request for Information (RFI) in March to gauge commercial interest in a data center development at the David-Monthan Air Base, but the RFI referred to a different 620-acre parcel than the one listed in the RFP. As set out by President Trump’s Executive Order (EO) 14318 , titled “Accelerating Federal Permitting of Data Center Infrastructure,” the data center must require at least $500 million in capital expenditure and offer more than 100MW in capacity. Offers are due by 6:00pm EST, November 14. The push to use federal lands for data centers and power generation forms part of the US’ national AI strategy. On October 2 , the Department of Energy (DOE) issued an RFP calling for companies to build and manage a data center at the Savannah River Site, a former nuclear materials facility in South Carolina. Two days before that, the DOE issued another RFP for a data center to be built in the 33,508-acre Oak Ridge Reservation. This policy traces back to former US President Joe Biden. Biden signed Executive Order (EO) 14141 with less than a week left in his term, which opened up federal lands for data center development, made government-owned lands available to developers for lease, and required agencies to make efforts to improve transmission infrastructure. Nine days later, President Donald Trump signed two EOs, titled “Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence” ( EO 14179 ) and “Unleashing American Energy” ( EO 14154 ), the latter of which encouraged “energy exploration and production on Federal lands and waters.” Trump then introduced EO 14318 in July, revoking the Biden-era EO 14141. In addition to the aforementioned stipulations about capital expenditure and capacity, the EO also removed several regulatory obligations imposed by Biden’s EO and streamlined planning and permitting reviews. More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 19 Feb 2026 Illinois governor Pritzker calls for two-year pause on data center tax credits Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 29 Jan 2026 Sharjah looks to lure data centers to UAE city, signs MoU with Chinese cloud player Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era Tags Arizona Arnold Air Force Base California Davis-Monthan Air Force Base Edwards Air Force Base Georgia Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst New Jersey Robins Air Force Base Tennessee US US Department of the Air Force Comments