Interconnected Colocation in Brooklyn - DataVerge Interconnected Colocation for Critical Core & Edge IT Infrastructure Needs Space and power available for quick deployment Largest carrier-neutral Meet-Me Room in Brooklyn More then 40 tier 1 carriers Over 60,000 sq. ft. available white space Supports up to 10MW of power Call 1-888-368-8048 Looking for state-of-the-art colocation for your critical IT infrastructure needs? If your business depends on ultra-low latency data processing, DataVerge offers managed colocation as close to end users as possible. With our robust infrastructure, you can focus on driving innovation and growth for your organization, while leaving the complexities of data management and security to us. DataVerge offers managed wholesale and retail colocation in Brooklyn, NY. Connectivity Low latency Built-in redundancy Affordable price point High-density AI power deployments Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Get a Quote First Name * Last Name * Company Email * Phone Message Why Brooklyn? Tech employment is up in Brooklyn more than any other borough with almost 10 percent of all NYC tech startups being located in Brooklyn Brooklyn is NYC’s most populated borough of over 2.5 million people The connectivity provider for Industry City, the largest coworking campus, home of over 550 companies Get a Quote Get a Quote Key Features of our Colocation Services: Unparalleled Reliability Our facility is designed with redundant power feeds, backup generators, and uninterruptible power supply (UPS) systems to guarantee uninterrupted operations, even during unforeseen power outages or disruptions. Advanced Security Measures We employ state-of-the-art security systems, including 24/7 surveillance, access controls, biometric authentication, and multi-layered physical security protocols, ensuring your infrastructure remains protected at all times. Scalability and Flexibility We offer flexible colocation options to accommodate businesses of all sizes. Whether you require a single server rack or a private suite, our facility can adapt to your evolving needs and provide the necessary space, power, and cooling infrastructure. High-Speed Connectivity Benefit from our robust network connectivity, with more than 40 carriers available to ensure low-latency connections and high-speed data transfers. Our facility is strategically located to provide excellent connectivity options to various metropolitan areas and beyond. Expert Support Our team of experienced professionals is available 24/7 to assist you with any technical issues or concerns Our Brooklyn Facility at a Glance The most interconnected ecosystem underpinning Brooklyn, Queens and Long Island Brooklyn’s only carrier-neutral Meet-Me Room for network operators The connectivity provider for Industry City, the largest coworking campus, home of over 550 companies A Rich & Fast-Growing Carrier Ecosystem Our data center provides the most dependable, high-performance environments for critical IT, cloud and edge workloads – supported by over 40 leading carriers, network providers, ISPs and CDNs. Get a Quote Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Get a Quote First Name * Last Name * Company Email * Phone Message