Related Digital breaks ground on $1.2bn data center in Cheyenne, Wyoming, will host CoreWeave servers - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Related Digital breaks ground on $1.2bn data center in Cheyenne, Wyoming, will host CoreWeave servers Project could eventually offer 302MW of capacity October 08, 2025 By Matthew Gooding Have your say Related Digital has broken ground on a $1.2 billion data center campus in Cheyenne, Wyoming, which will host AI infrastructure for CoreWeave. The 115-acre campus will be located on land on Cheyenne Business Parkway, and could eventually offer up to 302MW of capacity. As anchor tenant, CoreWeave has agreed what is described as a “long-term lease” to rent 88MW of space. Ground-breaking at Related Digital's site in Cheyenne, Wyoming – Related Digital Local dignitaries joined executives from Related Digital and Coreweave at a groundbreaking ceremony on Tuesday. “The exponential growth of data centers is providing a powerful new economic engine to states like Wyoming, which are helping lead the way in keeping America competitive in the global AI race,” said Jeff T. Blau, CEO of Related Companies. "I want to thank Governor Gordon, Mayor Collins, Clayco, and of course our partner CoreWeave for coming together to begin development of this site, which will create meaningful tax benefits for the city and state, bring hundreds of new construction jobs, support Cheyenne’s small businesses, and create the digital infrastructure our country needs." The first data center building on the site is expected to be completed by the end of 2026 and will offer 184,000 sq ft (17.094 sqm) of space. The amount of IT space available as part of Phase I of the development is unclear, but it is expected to generate over $250 million in tax revenue to the State of Wyoming and City of Cheyenne over its first 15 years of operations and create over 700 construction jobs, as well as 40 permanent roles. The data center will be air-cooled, and Related Digital said it will require only nominal water consumption. “Companies that bring jobs, invest in our communities, and use innovation offer smart growth opportunities and will always have a home here in Wyoming,” said Wyoming Governor Mark Gordon. “Related’s high-efficiency, air-cooled technology is remarkable - using only nominal water primarily for domestic use - avoids putting strain on our precious water resources.” Sachin Jain, CoreWeave’s chief operating officer, added: “This project in Cheyenne reflects CoreWeave’s commitment to sharing our essential AI cloud with many more businesses, and to doing so responsibly with sustainability and long-term community investment in mind. “We are proud to partner with the State of Wyoming, the City of Cheyenne, and Related Digital to create lasting economic opportunity while powering the next generation of AI innovation.” Related Digital was launched earlier this year by real estate investor Related Companies, and claims to have a 5GW data center pipeline across the US and Canada, including publicly announced developments in Ontario, Canada, and Illinois, US. Wyoming has a relatively small data center market. Microsoft and Meta are present in the Cowboy State, while Prometheus Hyperscale and Crusoe are developing campuses in the region. 1547 CSR and several cryptomining companies are also present. More in Construction & Site Selection North America data center report: Year-end 2025 17 Dec 2025 AirTrunk plans second data center in Osaka, Japan Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 15 Jan 2026 Google signs 1.17GW worth of PPAs with Clearway across US market Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Cheyenne CoreWeave Related Digital Wyoming Comments