Morgantown Federal Energy Lab Could Host Data Center For AI - West Virginia Public Broadcasting Live Radio Open Radio Player Download the WVPB App For iOS and Android Make a Donation Home » Stories » Morgantown Federal Energy Lab Could Host Data Center For AI Curtis Tate Published April 3, 2025 - 4:58 pm Morgantown Federal Energy Lab Could Host Data Center For AI Data centers are a top priority for Gov. Patrick Morrisey. WV Governor's Office Listen Share this Article A federal energy lab in Morgantown could become the site of a data center to support artificial intelligence. The National Energy Technology Laboratory campus is one of 16 sites nationwide identified by the U.S. Department of Energy to develop data centers. The Morgantown site consists of about 50 acres and has access to a power transmission line and a substation. Two other sites near Pittsburgh that are part of the same laboratory are also under consideration. One advantage of the Morgantown site is its proximity to West Virginia University and its research programs. The Morgantown lab already conducts research on AI and advanced computing. The Department of Energy envisions scaling up the sites quickly to make them operational by 2027. Energy Secretary Chris Wright calls the effort the Manhattan Project of global AI dominance . “With today’s action, the Department of Energy is taking important steps to leverage our domestic resources to power the AI revolution, while continuing to deliver affordable, reliable and secure energy to the American people,” Wright said in a statement. Other sites on the list include the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee, the Paducah Gaseous Diffusion Plant in Kentucky and the Portsmouth Gaseous Diffusion Plant in Ohio. Criteria include ample land and water, access to the power grid or the ability to generate power on the site. The West Virginia Legislature is considering House Bill 2014, to expand the number of microgrids in the state to support data centers. On Wednesday, Pennsylvania Gov. Josh Shapiro announced that what was the state’s largest coal-burning power plant would become the site of a 4.5 gigawatt natural gas plant to power a data center. The Homer City Generating Station closed in 2023 and was demolished last month . Add WVPB as a preferred source on Google to see more from our team Tags Related to This Article Artificial Intelligence Data Center Electricity Grid Microgrids Morgantown National Energy Technology Laboratory Story - The Legislature Today U.S. Department of Energy West Virginia University Related News Energy & Environment Eric Douglas, Apr. 22, 2026 W.Va. Fares Well In Air Quality Study By Lung Association The American Lung Association has released its 27th State of the Air report on air pollution Wednesday and awarded grades for metro areas across the country. Continue Reading Take Me to More News Energy & Environment Bill Lynch, Apr. 18, 2026 High Voltage Lines And Ticks, This West Virginia Week On this West Virginia Week, a Florida energy company plans to build a high voltage line across four West Virginia counties. Also, the state’s horse racing industry gets a boost, and be sure to watch out for ticks this season. Continue Reading Take Me to More News Energy & Environment WVPB Staff, Apr. 08, 2026 The Connection Between A Mineral And Data Centers, This West Virginia Morning Fluorspar is a little-known mineral used to make everything from steel, aluminum and gasoline to uranium fuel and batteries. For the Appalachia Mid-South Newsroom, WKMS’ Lily Burris reports the largest known deposit of the critical mineral in the U.S. is in western Kentucky – and its applications in artificial intelligence (AI) could reawaken the region’s mining industry. Continue Reading Take Me to More News Health & Science Chris Schulz, Apr. 06, 2026 Scam Tracker Website Tallies Fraud Attempts The West Virginia Attorney General's Consumer Protection Division has launched a new website that tracks the latest scams targeting state residents. Continue Reading Take Me to More News This Mother’s Day, gift the special mom in your life our “Mom’s Day In” WVPB thank you gift. This includes our newest Fiesta mug in the color Linen, the WVPB Nerd short sleeve t-shirt, English Breakfast blend tea from The Tea Shoppe at Seneca Center in Morgantown, and the Wild and Wonderful coffee from Coal River Coffee Company in St. Albans. Make a one-time gift during our Spring Digital Pledge Drive of $360 or become a sustaining member at just $30 a month.