Big crowd in Van Buren Township looks for answers on proposed data center | WEMU-FM Skip to main content Search Query Show Search © 2026 WEMU Menu Serving Ypsilanti, Ann Arbor and Washtenaw County, MI Show Search Search Query Donate Play Live Radio Next Up: 0:00 0:00 0:00 0:00 Available On Air Stations On Air Now Playing 89.1 WEMU All Streams Click here to get School Closing Information WEMU News Big crowd in Van Buren Township looks for answers on proposed data center 89.1 WEMU | By Kevin Meerschaert Published December 12, 2025 at 6:48 AM EST Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Listen • 0:45 Kevin Meerschaert / 89.1 WEMU Residents gather at Van Buren Township Hall to discuss a proposed data center. A big crowd packed into the Van Buren Township Hall Thursday night looking for answers on a proposed data center. Around the room were representatives from the developers, DTE and the Township. Renderings of the proposal were on stands as residents asked questions. Kevin Meerschaert / 89.1 WEMU Rendering of the proposed data center in Van Buren Township. Adam Kramer is the head of data centers for developer Panattoni says they want to provide all the information they can. “This is our third open house on this project. We were going to either do industrial or we were going to do data center. And we met with the community, and we were overwhelmingly told, ‘Hey, we don’t want any truck traffic. We don’t want to do this.’ So, we said we’re going to pursue a data center. This is unlike some of the other projects you are seeing around Michigan. This is zoned data center by right.” Still not everybody was happy with what they heard. Township Supervisor Kevin McNamara says nothing has been finalized. Residents will get the chance to voice their concerns during upcoming planning and trustee board meetings. Non-commercial, fact based reporting is made possible by your financial support. Make your donation to WEMU today to keep your community NPR station thriving. Like 89.1 WEMU on Facebook and follow us on X (Twitter) Contact WEMU News at 734.487.3363 or email us at studio@wemu.org Tags WEMU News Van Buren Township DTE Energy Co. data centers public forum Public Input development Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Kevin Meerschaert News Reporter and Host Kevin Meerschaert was a student reporter at WEMU in the early 90s. After another 30 years in the public radio business and stops in Indiana, Maryland, Florida, and New Mexico, Kevin is back to where it all began. See stories by Kevin Meerschaert Related Content WEMU News Open house tonight for expected Van Buren Township data center Kevin Meerschaert A big crowd is expected tonight as officials release details of what many expect to be a proposed data center in Van Buren Township. WEMU’s Kevin Meerschaert reports. Listen • 0:44 WEMU News MPSC holds off on Saline Township data center vote Kevin Meerschaert The Michigan Public Service Commission on Friday made no decisions in connection to DTE’s contracts regarding the Saline Township data center. But it didn’t stop the public from chiming in. WEMU’s Kevin Meerschaert reports. Listen • 0:54 WEMU News Pittsfield Township to vote on data center moratorium Kevin Meerschaert The Pittsfield Township Board of Trustees will hold a special meeting this week to head off any proposed data centers. WEMU’s Kevin Meerschaert reports. Listen • 0:45