Beale Infrastructure in talks to build data center campus outside Tulsa, Oklahoma - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Beale Infrastructure in talks to build data center campus outside Tulsa, Oklahoma Blue Owl-backed firm eyes third potential campus in Sooner State January 06, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Data center developer Beale Infrastructure is planning another data center campus outside Tulsa in Oklahoma. Local press, including Fox and ABC , reports that the city of Claremore and Claremore Economic Development (CED) are in discussions with Beale over a data center development known as Project Mustang. – Beale Infrastructure “Over the past several months, the City and CED have been engaged in discussions regarding a potential large-scale economic development project, known as Project Mustang, within the Claremore Industrial Park,” the city said in a statement. “As with all industrial projects, rigorous site due diligence is required to determine feasibility before any commitments are made.” The company lists plans for a campus in Claremore on its website. Set to be located in the Claremore Industrial Park, the campus will include “multiple data center buildings” built in phases. Full details on the number of buildings on the campus weren’t shared, but they would reportedly be air-cooled. ABC reports the first phase could go live in 2028. Electric service will be provided by the City of Claremore, a wholesale customer of Grand River Dam Authority (GRDA). Claremore is a city and the county seat of Rogers County in northeastern Oklahoma, around 30 miles northeast of Tulsa. Beale Infrastructure is a data center developer backed by alternative investment asset company Blue Owl. The company is planning multiple campuses outside Tucson , Arizona, and around Kansas City in De Soto , Kansas. The firm is also planning a development in Coweta , a city southeast of Tulsa in Wagoner County. The proposed Project Atlas development is targeting land along 16192 State Highway 51B, just south of Coweta and east of Highway 72. Beale has also been named as the firm behind Project Clydesdale , a planned 506-acre data center campus in Owasso, a city northeast of Tulsa. Neither Tulsa nor Oklahoma, more generally, has a major data center ecosystem. Google operates a data center campus to the east of Tulsa in Pryor, Mayes County. Announced in 2007, it launched a facility there back in 2011 and has expanded at regular intervals since. TierPoint operates several data centers in Tulsa . Last year, Tonaquint acquired an EdgeX data center in Oklahoma City. A 340-acre campus known as Project Anthem is in the works in Tulsa. Meta has been linked to the development, which is due to begin construction next year. More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 07 Apr 2026 Chindata and HEC break ground on 7.5MW data center in Hubei Province, China Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 12 Jan 2026 Nebius plans 800MW data center campus outside Kansas City, Missouri Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Beale Infrastructure Claremore Oklahoma Project Mustang Rogers County Tulsa Comments