Province Group data center campus gets green light in Powhatan County, Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Province Group data center campus gets green light in Powhatan County, Virginia County board goes against planning commission's recommendation to deny rezoning request November 01, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Local officials have given the green light to a new data center campus outside Richmond in Powhatan County, Virginia. California-based Province Group filed to develop on 119.9 acres of land, currently undeveloped, at the Ellis Farm site north of US Route 60, in May 2024 . The firm had filed to rezone the land at 1318 Page Road in Midlothian from Agriculture 10 (A10) to Light Industrial (I-1). Province Group gets the green light in Powhatan County – Province Group As reported by the Richmond Times-Dispatch , the Powhatan County supervisors this week approved the proposal, voting 3-2 in favor to grant a conditional use permit. The county Planning Commission had recommended to deny the request in August. The campus will consist of three data center buildings, each reaching a height of 75 feet. In total, 1.5 million sq ft (139,355 sqm) of floor space will be developed. Filings suggest the campus would total 300MW at full build-out; the site is close to a Dominion transmission line. The site’s owners, Harold and Christina Ellis, had previously filed to turn the property into a mixed-use development with up to 249 detached houses and townhomes, but this was rejected in 2019. A scaled-down proposal for 180 houses and a 300,000-square-foot industrial building and a restaurant was eventually not pursued. Province was founded in 1991 and is headquartered in Newport Beach, California. It claims to have developed, renovated, acquired, or entitled more than 75 projects with a combined value of more than $850 million. According to its website , the company has developed commercial and residential projects in its home state as well as in Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Texas, Washington, and Hawaii. Powhatan County is located directly west of Richmond. While Northern Virginia is the data center capital of the world, the Richmond area is also home to a number of projects. Other data center developments that have recently been proposed around the Richmond area include the 2.4GW Tract data center on 1,200 acres in Hanover County for which zoning has been approved. Chirisa is also planning additional data centers at Meadowville Technology Park in Chesterfield. More in Construction & Site Selection HP SitePrint for data centers 14 Jan 2026 Meta DC infrastructure partner purchases $42m land parcel in New Albany, Ohio Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 22 Apr 2026 Deutsche Telekom considers full union with T-Mobile - report Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Virginia Richmond Powhatan Technology Park 1318 Page Road Powhatan County Province Group Midlothian Comments