Franklin Township discusses 470-acre data center rezoning | wthr.com Breaking News More ( ) » Local News Residents voice concerns about massive data center in Franklin Township Residents recently had a chance to hear about the proposed data center at a public hearing in March. To stream 13 WTHR on your phone, you need the 13 WTHR app. Download the 13 WTHR app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video INDIANAPOLIS — A developer is seeking to rezone nearly 470 acres in Franklin Township for a proposed data center , and residents got the chance to learn more at a community meeting Wednesday. The Franklin Township Civic League's Land Use and Zoning Committee discussed the proposal during its regular monthly meeting on April 16 at the Civic League Community Building. The meeting was open to the public. An entity named Deep Meadow Ventures, LLC has petitioned to rezone 467 acres across several properties on South Post Road, East Troy Avenue, Davis Road and Vandergriff Road. The company behind what's being called "Project Flo" is choosing to stay anonymous as they complete their "due diligence" for the site. The only public details given where that it is a Fortune 100 technology company headquartered in the U.S. with multiple data centers around the globe. Credit: WTHR The area of land in Franklin Township where meetings are being held on re-zoning for a proposed data center, pictured March 20, 2025. Developers say that the initial investment of the project is estimated at around $1 billion, with possibility of exceeding that subject to infrastructure and business needs. The proposed development would include a data center campus with light manufacturing, research and development, utilities, agricultural uses and office space. The company is also seeking a variance to allow for buildings up to 75 feet tall — nearly double the current 38-foot height limit, and to eliminate the maximum front yard setback currently capped at 85 feet. "We want to know who the neighbor is going to be to us," Franklin Township resident Adrianne Fowler said. "Without that information, we can't make a full judgment on whether we think it is a good idea." City-County Council Minority Leader Michael-Paul Hart (R-District 20) joined in on the community discussion, pressing the petitioner's lawyers on why community incentives won't be discussed until after the rezoning process. "That's giving away your hand before the game is over, and that's what they're expecting the neighbors to do," Hart said. "And I say that's completely wrong. They need to bring the incentives before the rezoning is complete — or else the people in the community won't have anything to negotiate with." Credit: WTHR Franklin Township Civic League's Land Use and Zoning Committee monthly meeting April 16, 2025. Community members say the company needs to go public in order for them to feel they can trust the project. "I think if they would say, 'Hey, here we are. This is what we want to do. This is what we can give back to your community.," resident Andrew Filler said. "I think that would help a lot." Meanwhile, Hart said more work needs to be done on the plan. "It sounds like the petitioner might need a little bit more time to figure out what they're going to offer as the incentive," he said. Residents had a chance to hear about the proposed data center at a public hearing in March. Neighbors expressed concerns not only about environmental changes, but also about whether financial benefits would extend to local communities. A community-led meeting is set for April 21 at 6:30 p.m. at the Civil League Community Building. The city's rezoning hearing for "Project Flo" is scheduled for May 15 at 1 p.m. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out