Calpine lands 190-MW agreement for new hyperscale data center in Texas Home / Gas Image by Michal Jarmoluk from Pixabay Houston-based Calpine Corporation announced a new 190-megawatt (MW) agreement with Dallas-based CyrusOne, a global data center developer and operator, to serve a new data center adjacent to the Thad Hill Energy Center in Bosque County, Texas. The deal secures power, grid connection and land to support a new facility that is currently under construction and expected to be operational by the fourth quarter of 2026. The Thad Hill Energy Center is a natural gas-fired combined cycle plant with a nameplate capacity of 250 MW, located in Bosque, Texas. “We’re excited to be a partner in this project to deliver cutting-edge data center infrastructure to Texas, bringing jobs, innovation, and economic growth to the region,” said Rick Peña, Executive Vice President of Corporate Development at Calpine. “This first-of-its-kind project establishes Calpine as a leader in reliable, scalable power solutions for hyperscale customers, leveraging our world-class fleet and Powered Land Capabilities (PLC) along with a suite of products and services to support both customer needs and grid reliability across ERCOT and beyond.” The campus, named DFW10, is being constructed by CyrusOne, which is backed by investment firms Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP), a part of BlackRock and KKR. The new multiphase data center campus will encompass more than 190,000 square feet in the first phase, with scalable capacity to meet future demand. The new campus will also feature capabilities to respond during ERCOT grid emergencies. The project represents a $1.2 billion infrastructure investment. “For decades, Calpine has been the premier power solutions provider for industrial-scale customers who need unwavering reliability, scalable capacity, and proven operational expertise,” said Mr. Peña. “Our world-class fleet is designed to support fast-paced development and PLC, along with the substantial data center load currently served by our affiliate, Calpine Solutions, puts those capabilities to work for hyperscale customers on the cutting edge.” Calpine said its roughly 9,000 MW of generation and wholesale and retail platform in ERCOT will be capable of delivering up to 400 MW to data centers located in Bosque, Texas. Last week, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) approved Constellation Energy’s previously announced acquisition of Calpine Corporation. This approval marked the latest milestone in the ongoing transaction, following earlier approvals by the New York Public Service Commission and the Public Utility Commission of Texas. The transaction, which is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2025, remains subject to clearance by the Department of Justice and other customary closing conditions. Earlier this year, Constellation announced plans to acquire Calpine in a cash and stock transaction valued at an equity purchase price of approximately $16.4 billion, through which Constellation will assume approximately $12.7 billion of net debt from Calpine. After accounting for cash that is expected to be generated by Calpine between signing and the expected closing date, as well as the value of tax attributes at Calpine, the net purchase price is $26.6 billion, the companies reported. The deal is one of the biggest in the history of power generation, and it comes at a time when demand for electricity has exploded. Constellation already owns and operates the largest fleet of nuclear plants in the United States. According to its website, Calpine has a fleet of 78 energy facilities – including natural gas-fired, geothermal, solar and battery storage, representing around 27,000 megawatts (MW) of capacity. Calpine holds a majority stake in “The Geysers,” a collection of 19 geothermal power plants outside Sonoma, California, that is collectively the largest producer of geothermal power in North America, at 725 MW. Business Gas News Calpine CyrusOne Must View Listening, integrating and scaling: How SENS is positioning for growth in critical power Olen Scott, Chief Commercial Officer at Stored Energy Systems (SENS), discusses reliability challenges in data centers and why factory-integrated solutions are superior to multi-vendor approaches. News Onsite Power POWERGEN News Langley Holdings Power Solutions enables a new era of data center connectivity and growth At POWERGEN 2026, Anthony Langley, CEO of Langley Holdings, discussed power demands that are being driven by AI, highlighting the need for onsite solutions. Gas News