Meta to expand Tennessee data center campus - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Meta to expand Tennessee data center campus Social media giant files for new 276,000 sq ft data center April 23, 2024 By Georgia Butler Have your say Meta has filed to build a new data center at its campus in Gallatin, Tennessee. The social media giant is looking to add a 278,000 sq ft (25,827 sqm) data center to its existing campus near Nashville with four data centers already in place, reports the Nashville Business Journal . Meta's plan for its Gallatin campus – Gallatin Municipal Planning Commission According to the company, the latest addition will bring Meta's total investment in Gallatin "well beyond" $1 billion since entering the area in 2020. The campus already has two finished data center buildings, and another two are currently being constructed . The recent application for another building will bring the total data center space to 1.9 million sq ft (176,516 sqm), including a small amount of office space. The data centers run on 100 percent renewable energy. The project team working on the data center campus is made up of DPR Construction, Barge Design Solutions, and architect Burns McDonnell. Gallatin's city planning commission will hold a public work session to discuss the project on April 29, though no votes will be taken during this meeting. "They have this down to an art - building these data centers," Gallatin Economic Development Agency interim director Rosemary Bates said. "They have their own concrete batch plant and an electric substation with a direct feed from Tennessee Valley Authority." "We’re happy they can go ahead and add this fifth building," Bates added. "They contribute a great deal to local non-profits and our school system." Since beginning construction in 2020, Meta has donated around $1 million to Sumner County Schools. The campus is also poised to be the city's largest property tax contributor. While Meta negotiated tax discounts for the next 20 years, it will still provide tens of millions of dollars each year until then. Bates added: "We are looking for companies that were going to contribute more to the tax revenue side than adding lots of jobs. We wanted low job numbers because unemployment is three percent or under. We weren’t necessarily looking for companies that were going to need 300 workers." In April 2023 , Meta was testing the use of mushrooms to break down drywall waste at its Gallatin campus. According to Data Center Map, the Nashville region has 19 data centers Local operators include Flexential , Centersquare, EdgeConnex, TierPoint, H5 Data Centers, 365 Data Centers, Lumen, Windstream, and DataBank, among others. More in Construction & Site Selection North America data center report: Year-end 2025 19 Jan 2026 13 more detained and released to ICE at Meta data center site in Louisiana Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 14 Jan 2026 Verizon Wireless outage hits thousands across the US Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Gallatin Meta Nashville Tennessee Rosemary Bates Comments