Special council meeting added for 'Project Spring' data center proposal | News | fox23.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email News Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email City of Sand Springs, Oklahoma Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save UPDATE 1/12/2026 — The City of Sand Springs says they will be holding a special council meeting on January 20 to discuss the data center proposal, called "Project Spring". The meeting will be held at 6 p.m. at the Charles Page High School cafeteria and will be for informational purposes only. They say that city staff will provide city information related to Project Spring and that project representatives will provide information about their proposal. They say other stake holders may be present as well. Citizens can sign up to speak at the meeting, but officials state no action will be taken at the meeting. SAND SPRINGS, Okla. — The City of Sand Springs says it has been notified by an applicant they would like to proceed with their application related to a proposed data center application . The City says the applications are on a special planning commission and city council agenda. In anticipation of the large crowds , the location of the special planning commission meeting will be on Tuesday, January 27 at 6 p.m. at the Charles Page High School Cafeteria, located at 500 North Adams Road. The City says at the meeting, consideration will be given to a request to change the Comprehensive Plan of the City of Sand Springs from residential to light industrial, to rezone from the current zoning of agriculture to industrial light with Planned Unit Development (PUD-39) overlay and to consider PUD-039 for 826+ acres. Another special city council meeting is planned for Tuesday, February 3 at 6 p.m. also at the high school cafeteria that will also discuss items related to the proposed data center applications. The public is invited to attend and share their arguments for and against the proposals. If you have any written argument for consideration, you can send them to the City of Sand Springs Planning Department at planning@sandspringsok.gov . Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Tags Data Center Sand Springs Charles Page High School Special Planning Commission Meeting Agenda Agriculture Light Industrial FOX23.com News Staff Author email Follow FOX23.com News Staff More News 1:15 News Video: Local filmmaker honored for documentary highlighting Gold Star Families A local filmmaker was honored Thursday evening for his documentary focusing on fallen service members and their families. Read More Video: Local filmmaker honored for documentary highlighting Gold Star Families 1:16 News Video: Milo’s Tea Company donates compost to Food On The Move's community garden Milo’s Tea Company and Food On The Move partnered on Friday to support fresh food production for Tulsa families through a compost donation at a community garden site. Read More Video: Milo’s Tea Company donates compost to Food On The Move's community garden 3:19 News Video: Oklahoma Senate pushes back on House plan to overhaul TSET, advances revised proposal Lawmakers at the Oklahoma Capitol are divided over the future of the Tobacco Settlement Endowment Trust (TSET), with the Senate now advancing a significantly revised version of a House proposa… Read More Video: Oklahoma Senate pushes back on House plan to overhaul TSET, advances revised proposal 1:07 News Video: Enid Police helps reunite pets with owners after tornado Enid Police are working to reunite pets with their owners after the tornado on Thursday, saying animal welfare remains a priority during disaster response. Read More Video: Enid Police helps reunite pets with owners after tornado News Oklahoma Senate pushes back on House plan to overhaul TSET, advances revised proposal Lawmakers at the Oklahoma Capitol are divided over the future of the Tobacco Settlement Endowment Trust (TSET), with the Senate now advancing a significantly revised version of a House proposa… Read More Oklahoma Senate pushes back on House plan to overhaul TSET, advances revised proposal News Local filmmaker honored for documentary highlighting Gold Star Families A local filmmaker was honored Thursday evening for his documentary focusing on fallen service members and their families. Read More Local filmmaker honored for documentary highlighting Gold Star Families 1:05 News Oklahoma in a Minute: April 24, 2026 In addition to the storm damage in Enid, the Town of Braman says it couldn't sound its sirens because of a separate tornado. That story and more news from across the state in tonight's Oklahom… Read More Oklahoma in a Minute: April 24, 2026 9:29 News In Depth: Tulsa County Commissioner Kelly Dunkerley discusses proposed south Tulsa bridge plan For decades, there has been ongoing discussion about the need for a new Arkansas River bridge in south Tulsa connecting to Bixby. The Memorial Drive Bridge remains the only direct connection b… Read More In Depth: Tulsa County Commissioner Kelly Dunkerley discusses proposed south Tulsa bridge plan News Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu says he was treated for prostate cancer and is now healthy Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says that he has undergone treatment for prostate cancer. It was his first public acknowledgment of the diagnosis. He said that roughly a year and a h… Read More Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu says he was treated for prostate cancer and is now healthy News Police identify the body of 1 missing USF student, second still missing as roommate is charged Law enforcement authorities in Florida say the body of a Bangladeshi doctoral student who went missing with his girlfriend from the University of South Florida has been found on a bridge over … Read More Police identify the body of 1 missing USF student, second still missing as roommate is charged News Cleanup efforts underway after tornado leaves widespread damage in Enid Relief is growing Friday night that no fatalities have been reported after what officials say was an EF4 tornado that struck the Enid community Thursday night, leaving behind widespread destru… Read More Cleanup efforts underway after tornado leaves widespread damage in Enid 2:59 News Video: Cleanup efforts underway after tornado leaves widespread damage in Enid Relief is growing Friday night that no fatalities have been reported after what officials say was an EF4 tornado that struck the Enid community Thursday night, leaving behind widespread destru… Read More Video: Cleanup efforts underway after tornado leaves widespread damage in Enid James Aydelott Currently in Tulsa 61° Partly Cloudy 74° / 59° 2 AM 60° 3 AM 60° 4 AM 60° 5 AM 60° 6 AM 60° WATCH NOW FOX23 News Tulsa Follow Fox23 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iOS App Android App OTT Live stream Trending 8 children between the ages of 1 and 14 are dead after a mass shooting in Louisiana, police say 22-Year-Old construction worker killed after being struck by dump truck on Highway 75 BAPD say deaths in Broken Arrow homes a murder-suicide One man is deceased following Delaware County car crash One dead after incident involving crash and shooting in Muskogee County © Copyright 2026 Rincon Broadcasting Tulsa, LLC 2625 S Memorial Dr, Tulsa, OK | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital .