Cloverleaf Infrastructure proposes data center campus near St. Louis, Missouri - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Cloverleaf Infrastructure proposes data center campus near St. Louis, Missouri Campus would offer 500MW of capacity at completion January 27, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say Powered land company Cloverleaf Infrastructure has proposed the construction of a data center campus in the city of Troy, Illinois, located northeast of St. Louis, Missouri. Although no official application has yet been submitted by the developer, Cloverleaf held an information session about its campus in early January, where it revealed its plans for a campus at Highway 43, East of Interstate 55, and cut in half by Collinsville Road. The 'Full Buildout Concept Plan' – Cloverleaf Infrastructure The first of these plans , titled ‘Phase 1,’ shows a data center campus covering approximately 250 to 300 acres of land, with six two-storey data center buildings each offering around 264,000 sq ft (25,000 sqm) of floor area. The site would also include a substation, an office, a warehouse, and seven stormwater basins. All of these structures would be located in the upper half of the total available acreage, which is shaped like the letter L. The second plan, titled ‘Full Buildout Concept Plan,’ would see four data centers buildings – less than listed in Phase 1 – and would make use of more of the acreage. Ancillary infrastructure would also be included. Times Tribune News also reports that the campus would offer 500MW of capacity at completion, which is set for late 2028 if construction begins in early 2027. Details about the campus’ end user were not disclosed, but Cloverleaf told the audience that it would not require public officials to sign NDAs, according to the Times Tribune News. Founded in February 2024 amidst the AI boom, Cloverleaf Infrastructure is a powered land provider that buys land for data center companies and works with utilities to upgrade the necessary power infrastructure. The company is backing projects in Georgia and Michigan , but opposition to a proposed campus in Wisconsin led the developer to back out in mid-January. More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 19 Jan 2026 New Era closes acquisition of Sharon AI's stake in Texas Critical Data Centers Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 11 Feb 2026 Magnora acquires land for 100MW data center project in Norway Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive Tags Cloverleaf Infrastructure Missouri St. Louis Troy Comments