Large data center coming to Air Products site in Upper Macungie Skip to content A new ordinance to regulate data centers in Upper Macungie Township wouldn’t apply to plans for a 2.6 million-square-foot center at the former Air Products campus. (Contributed photo) By Evan Jones | ejones@mcall.com | The Morning Call PUBLISHED: November 12, 2025 at 1:43 PM EST | UPDATED: November 12, 2025 at 2:27 PM EST Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... Does the future of the former Air Products headquarters site include a 2.6 million-square-foot data center? The 194-acre plot in Upper Macungie Township could have one in the not-too-distant future. In a Morning Call column published Sunday , Lehigh Valley Planning Commission Executive Director Becky Bradley wrote that the organization has received plans for such a building. “This region already has a few small data centers, and we are aware that several developers are actively marketing the region for more,” Bradley said. She said larger data centers are replacing larger warehouses as the Lehigh Valley’s top mega projects. “Get ready,” she wrote. An Upper Macungie official confirmed that the township also has received a data center plan, but it is still being processed. After it is accepted by the township, it will be open for public inspection. Air Products still owns the land at 7201 Hamilton Blvd. Spokesperson Art George said the company has not “made any announcements regarding the sale of the site, and the site continues to be marketed. We have no additional details to provide at this time.” Lehigh Valley communities have been preparing for arrival of data centers . Townships including South Whitehall, Palmer and Upper Mount Bethel have have either proposed or adopted rules that include protections such as placing centers in zoning areas where building sizes can be limited and required noise buffers. In addition to concerns about noise, some critics also worry about the enormous amounts of energy and water data centers require to operate. Air Products opened its former headquarters in the mid-1950s after founder Leonard Parker Pool relocated the company from Chattanooga, Tennessee. He began the company in 1940 in Detroit. The parcel between Hamilton Boulevard and Cetronia Road was considered for a trio of warehouses that drew some blowback . Two companies occupy buildings on the property: specialty chemical company Evonik, which has its innovation hub on a portion that was not to be redeveloped, and Intertek, a chemical and material testing company. The plan that was debated and received approvals from the township in 2023 included three warehouses totaling 2.6 million square feet on 61 acres. Logistics company Prologis would have owned the warehouses, but any deal apparently fell through. Air Products built its new headquarters in 2021 about a mile away. The nine-story structure sits on 53 acres along Mill Creek Road adjacent to Route 222 in Upper Macungie and Lower Macungie townships. Morning Call reporter Evan Jones can be reached at ejones@mcall.com. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X RevContent Feed More in Business 2025 November 12 Close