Locals say a Dresden Bitcoin mining operation is ruining Seneca Lake Skip to content LONDON, ENGLAND – DECEMBER 07: A visual representation of the digital Cryptocurrency, Bitcoin on December 07, 2017 in London, England. (Photo by Dan Kitwood/Getty Images) by: Gretchen Morgenson Posted: Jul 5, 2021 / 12:58 PM EDT Updated: Jul 5, 2021 / 12:59 PM EDT SHARE DRESDEN, N.Y. (NBC) – Summer on Seneca Lake, the largest of the Finger Lakes in upstate New York, is usually a time of boating, fishing, swimming, and winetasting. But for many residents of this bucolic region there’s a new activity this season — protesting a gas-fired power plant they say is polluting the air and heating the lake. “The lake is so warm you feel like you’re in a hot tub,” said Abi Buddington, a resident of Dresden, N.Y., whose home is near the plant. The facility on the shores of Seneca Lake is owned by private-equity firm Atlas Holdings and operated by Greenidge Generation LLC. They have increased the electrical power output at the gas-fired plant in the past year and a half and use much of that fossil-fuel energy not to keep the lights on in surrounding towns, but for the energy-intensive “mining” of Bitcoin . Bitcoin is a cryptocurrency — a digital form of money with no actual bills or coins — but “mining” it, a way of earning it, requires massive, high-performance computers. The computers earn small rewards of Bitcoin by verifying transactions in the currency that are occurring on the internet around the globe. The math required to verify those transactions and earn bitcoins gets more complex all the time, and demands more and more computer power. At Greenidge, the computers operate 24/7, burning through an astounding amount of real energy, and producing real pollution, while collecting virtual currency. One estimate from the University of Cambridge says global Bitcoin miners in a year use more energy than Chile . When this energy comes from fossil fuels, the process can add significantly to carbon emissions. The Greenidge plant houses at least 8,000 computers and is looking to install more, meaning it will have to burn even more natural gas to produce more energy. Private-equity firms like Atlas buy companies, often using debt, and hope to sell them later at a profit. They are secretive operations with investments that can be hard to track. Such firms have grown significantly in recent years and currently oversee $5 trillion for pension funds, insurance companies, university endowments and wealthy individuals. In the past 10 years, private-equity firms have poured almost $2 trillion into energy investments, according to Preqin, a private-equity database. Some $1.2 trillion of this money has gone into conventional energy investments such as refineries, pipelines, and fossil-fuel plants, versus $732 billion in renewables like solar and wind power, Preqin said. As investor criticism prompts some public companies to dump fossil-fuel assets, private-equity firms are ready buyers. In 2019, for example, powerhouse Kohlberg, Kravis & Roberts, or KKR, acquired a majority stake in the troubled Coastal Gaslink Pipeline project, a 400-mile fracking gas pipeline in British Columbia, Canada, that has drawn protests from First Nations people whose land it crosses and citations from a regulator. In a report last fall, the Environmental Assessment Office, a provincial agency, said the project failed to comply on 16 of 17 items inspected. As a result, Coastal Gaslink was ordered to hire an independent auditor to monitor its work to prevent site runoff that can pollute streams and harm fish. Because private-equity firms expect to hold their investments for only a few years, they often keep alive fossil-fuel operations that would otherwise be mothballed, said Tyson Slocum, director of the energy program at Public Citizen, a nonprofit consumer advocate. “Private equity thinks it can squeeze a couple more years out of them,” Slocum said. “And they are often immune from investor pressures.” In 2016, for instance, private-equity firm Arclight Capital Partners of Boston bought into Limetree Bay, an oil refinery and storage facility in St. Croix, U.S.V.I. The operation had gone bankrupt after a series of toxic spills but reopened in February 2021. Just three months later, it was shuttered after unleashing petroleum rain on nearby neighborhoods. Arclight, which has invested a total of $23 billion since its 2001 founding, gave up operational control of Limetree Bay in early 2020, a person briefed on the matter said, and exited in an April restructuring, just before the accident. A spokeswoman for Arclight said the firm “takes its responsibilities to protect the environment and support local communities seriously and will continue to strive to meet the highest standards.” Because private-equity firms are secretive, their investors may not know what they own or the risks, said Alyssa Giachino of the Private Equity Stakeholder Project, a nonprofit that examines the industry’s impact on communities. She thinks pension funds and their beneficiaries may end up with more fossil-fuel exposure than they realize and may not have a full appreciation of the risks. They include heavy impacts on communities of color, risks of litigation and environmental penalties, and long-term climate impact, she added. Private-equity titan KKR is a huge energy investor on behalf of endowments, public pensions and other institutional investors. Like many of its private-equity brethren, KKR has deployed far more money in conventional energy assets like the Coastal Gaslink Pipeline than renewables. Between 2010 and 2020, KKR invested $13.4 billion in conventional energy assets versus $4.9 billion in renewables, according to a recent estimate by Giachino. KKR did not dispute these figures in emails with NBC News. KKR’s spokeswoman said the firm is “committed to investing in a stable energy transition, one that supports a shift to a clean energy future while recognizing the ongoing importance of supplying the conventional energy needed for well-being and economic growth around the world today.” The company says it communicates its investment approach, progress and goals transparently to stakeholders. KKR recently added a team focused on energy transition investments in North America. Private-equity investors sometimes “leave behind messes for someone else to clean up,” said Clark Williams-Derry, energy analyst at the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis. “The real trouble happens when the private-equity firm comes in and is just trying to strip mine the company and the workers for whatever they’re worth,” he said. Not so Greenidge, the Atlas-owned operator of the Seneca Lake power plant, said Jeff Kirt, its chief executive officer. “The environmental impact of the plant has never been better than it is right now,” he told NBC News. The lakeshore facility is operating within its federal and state environmental permits, he added, and has created 31 jobs, a company-commissioned report shows. Cryptocurrency’s potential profits add to the appeal of buying low-cost and carbon-intensive power plants, Williams-Derry said. While natural gas-fired plants like Greenidge’s in New York are not as problematic as those that use coal, they still generate damaging greenhouse gases, he said. After Greenidge took over the plant, Kirt told NBC News, the company sought ways to earn higher returns on its surplus energy. It struck gold with Bitcoin mining. During the 12 months ending Feb. 28, 2021, the company said it mined 1,186 bitcoins at a cost of approximately $2,869 each. Bitcoin, which gyrates feverishly, currently trades at around $34,000. ‘A horrible business model’ Greenidge’s owner, the private-equity firm Atlas, is on a roll. It recently raised $3 billion from investors, doubling its assets to $6 billion. Atlas owns stakes in 23 companies; two are power generators — Greenidge in New York and Granite Shore Power in New Hampshire. Atl