Meta set to develop 1,500 acre data center campus outside Indianapolis, Indiana - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Meta set to develop 1,500 acre data center campus outside Indianapolis, Indiana Company coming to the city of Lebanon November 27, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Meta is set to build another data center campus in Indiana, this time just outside Indianapolis. “Huge night at the Lebanon, Indiana City Council meeting! The Council approved an incentive package to attract [a] Meta (the parent company of Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp) data center campus to the LEAP District,” Lebanon Mayor Matt Gentry said on Facebook this week. “This first phase (of up to a potential of six phases) is an $800 million investment!” Lebanon's LEAP district – City of Lebanon At full build out, the campus could total 1,400 acres of land within the Boone County site. The LEAP Lebanon Innovation District totals more than 9,000 acres along Indiana’s I-65 corridor, northwest of Indianapolis. Discussions with the social media firm have reportedly going on for almost two years, according to Gentry. The development was reportedly known as Project Domino. Gentry said the Phase 1 investment will generate more than $80 million in property taxes and more than $33 million in Community Impact Payments over the next 15 years. Tax abatements for the first campus were approved unanimously at the Lebanon City Council meeting this week. Meta has requested a phased water supply of up to three million gallons per day and wastewater of up to 1.5 million gallons per day, phased from 2027 to 2031. Local press, including Inside Indiana Business reported Meta wasn’t comfortable with the Mayor naming the company, but the city thought transparency was important. “I am excited Meta is considering the LEAP Research & Innovation District for expansion, and we look forward to working with them as they explore a potential project,” Gov. Eric Holcomb told the publication in a statement. Earlier this year, Meta announced plans for another Indiana data center located in Jeffersonville . The city is located in Clark County on the southern border of Indiana along the Ohio River; the city of Louisville, Kentucky, is located on the south side of the river. 2024 has also seen Meta announce facilities in Aiken , South Carolina, Cheyenne , Wyoming; Rosemount , Minnesota; and Montgomery , Alabama. This year, the company launched a campus in Gallatin , Tennessee. The company has been linked to, but not officially announced, projects in Davenport , Iowa, and Holly Ridge, Louisiana . Subscribe to our daily newsletters Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter series. More in Construction & Site Selection Preventing multimillion dollar data center losses through reporting 03 Apr 2026 Unidata begins development on 20MW data center in Rome, Italy Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 02 Feb 2026 British Columbia, BC Hydro launch competitive power process for AI and data centers Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Lebanon Meta Indianapolis Indiana Boone County LEAP Lebanon Innovation District Project Domino Comments