Crusoe taps Blue Energy to supply nuclear power for up to 1.5GW data center in Port of Victoria, Texas - DCD Home News The Mission Critical Power Channel Crusoe taps Blue Energy to supply nuclear power for up to 1.5GW data center in Port of Victoria, Texas Expected to start delivering nuclear power by 2031 October 30, 2025 By Zachary Skidmore Have your say AI data center developer Crusoe has partnered with US nuclear energy firm Blue Energy to develop an up to 1.5GW nuclear-powered data center campus located in the Port of Victoria, Victoria, Texas. – Blue Energy Blue Energy said it will deliver power to the planned 1,600-acre Crusoe campus as early as 2028. Blue Energy will initially provide energy through gas-powered generation, which will subsequently be converted into nuclear energy by 2031. The company claims that, through its solution, it can slash the time to power to 36 months or less with a natural gas bridge. According to Blue Energy, the campus was chosen for its location, existing infrastructure, and available energy resources to support a gigawatt-scale AI factory. It is in proximity to existing and planned transmission lines and fiber-optic networks, and offers access to one of the US’s largest natural gas pipeline systems. “Blue Energy’s gas-to-nuclear approach delivers exactly what we need: unrivaled speed to market using existing fuel sources, combined with a clear, rapid transition to the massive, carbon-free baseload power that only nuclear power can provide. This partnership demonstrates how we’re building the future of AI sustainably and at scale,” said Andrew Likens, Crusoe vice president of energy infrastructure & development. Unlike most other advanced nuclear firms, Blue Energy is not a reactor manufacturer. Instead, the company focuses on the design of modular nuclear power plants, which are manufactured off-site at shipyards and then transported to the site. The company claims to be reactor agnostic, instead designing the “plant architecture” around the reactor, enabling different reactor vendors to plug in. It said it will focus on deploying mature light-water reactors and submerging the reactors in a pool of water to improve their safety. “This partnership with AI infrastructure leader Crusoe marks a key milestone for Blue Energy as we work to meet rising global energy demand and, for the first time in the nuclear industry's history, build a plant with cost and schedule certainty,” said Jake Jurewicz, Blue Energy co-founder and CEO. “We’re proud to be working with Port of Victoria leaders to establish our footprint in Texas and look forward to engaging with local and regional partners, including the City of Victoria and nearby Bloomington, as we take steps to build the world’s first project-financed nuclear power plant.” Crusoe launched in 2019 as a cryptomining business that deployed containerized data centers to oil wells to harness natural gas that would otherwise be "flared off" and wasted. It has since pivoted to developing permanent data centers for itself and others, offering AI cloud services (including from leased sites), and has divested its crypto operations. Crusoe is best known as the primary developer of the 1.2GW Abilene, Texas, campus for OpenAI and Oracle - the first of the Stargate data center projects. The first phase went live in September 2025 . Earlier this month , the company secured $1.4 billion in its latest funding round led by Mubadala Capital and Valor Equity Partners, and saw the company valued at $10bn. Blue Energy was founded in 2023. It stems from MIT’s Nuclear Science & Engineering Department and is backed by The Engine Ventures and At One Ventures. More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 20 Apr 2026 Officials in North Carolina county void data center rezoning amid legal challenge Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Sustainability AI factories & the waterless future 19 Nov 2025 Pure DC commits £24m to build UK's largest biochar facility in Wiltshire Episode North American data centers - Which metrics matter most for long-term targets? Tags Blue Energy Crusoe Nuclear Energy Port of Victoria Texas Victoria Comments