Pine Island approves financial incentives for Project Skyway Skip to content Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google PINE ISLAND, Minn. (KTTC) – At a special meeting Wednesday, the Pine Island City Council approved new business subsidies and tax abatements for Project Skyway, the multimillion-dollar data center project. The council’s 5-0 decision came after a presentation by government staff, and a series of Pine Island residents spoke out against the incentives. The total, a $36,578,343 abatement, would be issued in two parts over a couple decades. While some in the audience balked at the size of the incentive, City Administrator Elizabeth Howard outlined the city would collect more than $131 million in new taxes over that time. Howard also mentioned the developer of the project, Ryan Companies, would pay into funds to support the community and schools. “The developer will be making payments, in addition to everything else that was decided, to the city,” Howard said. “And we can really invest those funds.” According to her, Ryan Companies would also be required to create permanent jobs in the city, a sticking point for many in the town. The subsidy summary states the developer will create at least 38 full time, on-site jobs, paying at least $31 an hour. Over time, the number of jobs could increase. “With this agreement, that ensures that those jobs will be made and created,” Howard said. However, several community members were still not satisfied. “Even Microsoft, a trillion-dollar tech giant building data centers right here in Minnesota, has publicly refused to pursue local tax abatements,” Pine Island resident Joyce Lanners said. “Its president stated, quote, ‘it’s both the right thing to do and essential for long-term sustainability to not seek local property tax abatements,’ end quote.” “That is leadership,” she added. “That is accountability. That is integrity.” Fellow resident Mary Bakeberg pointed to advancements in data center construction as a reason not to move forward with the incentives. “First of all, this data center could be obsolete by the time the building is even finished,” Bakeberg said. “Second, it certainly will be when the computers have to be replaced in their approximately five-year lifespan.” “Let’s not move fast and break things,” Rev. David Derksen said. “Let’s slow this down. Let’s take every opportunity to make a deliberate choice so that the community isn’t harmed.” Yet, at the end, the council still decided to move forward, advancing the project to the next stage. “You’ll never have something where everyone agrees on every single city issue,” Howard said. “There’s always disagreement. And so, what we try to do is find that middle ground.” Find stories like this and more, in our apps . Copyright 2026 KTTC. All rights reserved. Most Read UPDATE: Cresco man seriously hurt after crash with pickup truck, trailer UPDATE: Rochester man hospitalized in Olmsted County crash, alcohol believed to be factor UPDATE: Rochester teen arrested in wrong-way incident along Highway 52 UPDATE: Ten fire departments respond to fire near West Concord Olmsted County updates number of properties impacted by tornado damage Multiple agencies respond to Rochester garage fire Thursday night First Alert Day: Strong storms are possible Thursday evening UPDATE: Woman with life-threatening injuries after four-vehicle crash on U.S. 63 Latest News Councilmember calls for salary cuts for Rochester City Council and mayor Councilmember calls for salary cuts for Rochester City Council and mayor Rochester bookstore gets ready to celebrate Independent Bookstore Day Saturday GOP calls for US Senate Candidate Royce White to end campaign Inside Iowa Politics: Emotional farewell speech from Sen. Jack Whitver Minnesota GOP calling on Republican Royce White to end his U.S. Senate campaign Southeast Minnesotans continue cleanup after tornadoes Southeast Minnesotans continue cleanup after tornadoes