Atlanta Data Center Would Be Larger Than Mall of Georgia Menu Show Search CONTINUE TO SITE ✕ IE 11 Not Supported For optimal browsing, we recommend Chrome, Firefox or Safari browsers. Artificial Intelligence Atlanta Data Center Would Be Larger Than Mall of Georgia At more than 6.2 million square feet, the proposed campus would be more than three times larger than the state’s largest shopping mall. The net amount of leased data center space in Atlanta rose by 706 megawatts last year. March 18, 2025 • Zachary Hansen, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Print Email (TNS) — Because metro Atlanta has established itself as the country’s hottest data center market, it’s getting harder for project pitches to stand out among an ever-increasing field. But a new data center proposal west of Atlanta has accomplished that through sheer size alone. Preliminary plans were filed Friday for an 11-building data center campus near I-20 in Douglas County that would encompass more than 6.2 million square feet of computer storage space, ranking among the largest proposals across the state. The Mall of Georgia has a footprint of about 1.7 million square feet — meaning this proposal is for a data center more than three times larger than the state’s largest shopping mall. The project, called “Hickman Property,” was first disclosed in a Development of Regional Impact filing , which triggers an early-stage infrastructure review for large developments that impact multiple jurisdictions. The DRI did not include an estimated build-out value of the campus, but metro Atlanta’s largest data center proposals are estimated to be multimillion-dollar investments. The project’s developer is listed as East Village Dothan LLC, an entity registered in 2022 by James Hickman, according to state business records . Hickman does not own the 701-acre project site property off Clinton Road, which is partially in the city of Villa Rica. Hickman did not immediately respond to requests for comment. There isn’t any indication that a major data center operator is tied to the project. The project plans also include three single-docked warehouses that comprise 66,000 square feet. The land would need to be rezoned from residential and agricultural to allow for the data center proposal to move forward. A project timeline was not disclosed in the DRI. The anticipated power capacity of the project was not included in the DRI, but it would likely require several hundred megawatts of electricity capacity to operate at this scale. Last week, a DRI was filed for a 1.5 million-square-foot data center campus proposal in Troup County that would use up to 600 megawatts of electricity — enough electricity to power about 450,000 homes. The projects join a litany of similar large-scale data center projects that have been proposed in metro Atlanta over the last year to build more computer server storage space to power the Internet, cloud services and artificial intelligence. The Atlanta region emerged as the country’s top data center market for leasing activity in 2024, dethroning Northern Virginia for the first time, according to new data from real estate services firm CBRE . The net amount of leased data center space in Atlanta increased by 706 megawatts in 2024, 56% more than Northern Virginia during the same year. Nearly 2,160 megawatts worth of data center development is under construction across metro Atlanta, more than double the size of data centers currently operating in the area. That’s roughly equal to the maximum electricity output of both of Plant Vogtle’s two new nuclear reactors . No other major market in the U.S. comes close to matching that projected wave of computer server farms. © 2025 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC. Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Print Email Tags: Infrastructure Urban Planning Artificial Intelligence Related Content Artificial Intelligence Kansas City, Mo., Turns to AI to Improve Disaster Response April 24, 2026 · Julia Edinger Artificial Intelligence Minneapolis Latest to Consider Data Center Moratorium April 24, 2026 Artificial Intelligence When Implementing AI, Trust the Process but Prioritize People April 23, 2026 · Theo Douglas Artificial Intelligence Not Another Panel, but a Chance to Build Civic Technology April 22, 2026 · Julia Edinger Artificial Intelligence Another County Pauses Data Centers to Weigh Impacts April 22, 2026 Artificial Intelligence Data Center Debate Settles Into Minnesota City Halls April 20, 2026 Never miss a story with the GovTech Today newsletter. SUBSCRIBE