170MW data center campus proposed in Boulder, Nevada - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 170MW data center campus proposed in Boulder, Nevada Skylar Capital partnering with Overwatch Capital March 30, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A data center campus colocated with a battery and solar project could be coming to Boulder, Nevada. First reported by 8NewsNow , Townsite Solar 2 LLC is proposing to develop a 150-170MW high-density AI data center campus on 88.5 acres of city-owned land located west of US Highway 95 and South of I-11. – Townsite Solar 2 | Boulder City Construction work could start later this year, with the first phase launching as soon as 2027. Site plans suggest up to six buildings are planned. Boulder City is a city in Clark County, approximately 26 miles (42 km) southeast of Las Vegas. The property is part of a current lease option agreement with TS2 for battery storage and solar development. Skylar Capital-owned Townsite Solar 2 is set to be a 55MW solar farm alongside a 150MW battery energy storage system (BESS). The farm was approved for construction on 76 acres in September 2023 . This latest filing suggests a 167MW BESS and a potential solar farm will provide load firming, peak shaving, and emergency backup. Townsite Solar said it is willing to use treated affluent or air cooling to protect the city’s water resources, according to city documents. The project will not connect to the Boulder City electrical grid, but has proposed to acquire power on the open market through the Mead substation. The site will use biodiesel for its backup generators. A Change.org petition against the project has garnered more than 1,000 signatures at the time of writing. “Decisions of this magnitude must not move forward without the clear support and consent of the people who live here,” the petition states. Skylar Capital Management is a hedge fund management firm focused on natural gas and power markets. Skylar previously developed the Townsite Phase 1 solar plus storage project – an 180MW solar farm plus 90MW BESS – which is now owned by Arevon Energy. Arevon is a partner on the second Townsite solar+BESS project, and the companies will partner with Overwatch Capital for the data center development, according to city documents. Texas-based Overwatch Capital is an investment platform focused on the development and operation of ‘sustainable’ digital infrastructure. Founded in 2022, the company aims to integrate clean energy solutions, including battery energy storage and carbon capture, into data center operations. It acquired a facility in Plano , Texas, last year. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 08 Apr 2026 Maine data center moratorium bill gets House approval, moves to Senate Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in Behind-The-Meter 23 Apr 2026 Hyundai Heavy Industries inks 684MW natural gas turbine supply deal with Aperion to power US data center market 20 Feb 2026 Planned data center in Maine under threat from proposed moratorium 10 Feb 2026 Biomass-powered data center planned outside Split, Croatia Tags Arevon Energy BESS Battery Energy Storage System Behind-the-Meter Boulder Clark County Las Vegas Nevada Overwatch Capital Solar Townsite Solar 2 Comments