Meta to build $800m data center in Montgomery, Alabama - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Meta to build $800m data center in Montgomery, Alabama Project set to go live in 2026 May 03, 2024 By Niva Yadav Have your say Tech giant Meta is building a data center in Montgomery, Alabama. The social media firm, formerly known as Facebook, this week announced plans to build a $800 million data center in Montgomery County. Meta's Huntsville data center, Alabama – Meta Built off Interstate 65, the facility is said to be AI-optimized and will span 715,000 sq ft (66,400 sqm). Other details have not yet been shared. The facility is expected to be live at the end of 2026, with work at the site already underway ahead of construction. Brad Davis, director of community and economic development at Meta, said: “The city - and our specific location - offers great access to infrastructure and renewable energy, a strong pull of talent, and most importantly, an amazing set of community partners.” Montgomery Mayor Steven L. Reed added: “Meta’s decision to expand into Montgomery with a state-of-the-art data center showcases how our region is diversifying into a knowledge-based economy and highlights the competitiveness of Montgomery and our economic development team.” The data center, the company’s 20th in the US, is expected to bring 100 jobs to the city. The facility is located across from Hyundai’s automotive assembly plant and will join Meta’s other Alabama data center campus 190 miles north in Huntsville, a previous investment worth $1.5 billion that launched in 2018. Last month , Meta filed to build a new data center at its campus in Gallatin, Tennessee. The social media giant currently has 19 data centers operational and under construction, in Virginia, Utah, Texas, Tennessee, Ohio, Oregon, New Mexico, North Carolina, Nebraska, Missouri, Minnesota, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Idaho, Georgia, Arizona, and Alabama in the US. Outside the US, Meta has data centers in Dublin, Ireland; Lulea, Sweden; Singapore; and Odense, Denmark. The company also announced plans last month to spend billions of dollars more on servers and data centers to support artificial intelligence. According to DataCenterMap, Alabama is home to 11 data centers, with operators including Lumen, Google, and DC Blox . More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 12 Jan 2026 Microsoft plans $400m data center in Castroville, Texas Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 04 Mar 2026 Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee launches Next Generation Data Centers Institute Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Meta Montgomery County Brad Davis Montgomery Alabama Comments