QTS acquires 1,700 acres of land in Pennsylvania for data center development - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel QTS acquires 1,700 acres of land in Pennsylvania for data center development Company buys land close to Talen nuclear plant and Amazon's planned campus March 19, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say QTS has acquired a large tract of land in Pennsylvania for data center development. – QTS As reported by local press citing county property records, QTS has acquired dozens of land parcels from close to 100 sellers in Salem Township west of Talen’s Susquehanna Nuclear Power Plant for a planned data center campus. The company has acquired some 1,700 acres for more than $500 million via Salem Township Holdings LLC. The full scope of QTS’ planned development haven’t been shared, but it could reportedly see 12-17 data centers built. Construction could start later this year. News that QTS was interested in developing in Pennsylvania surfaced last year as part of a series of data center-related announcements for the state by President Donald Trump. At the time, Blackstone said it had secured multiple sites in Northeastern Pennsylvania to develop and operate data centers. The project is listed on QTS’s website, with the company saying it is “excited to establish a new data center campus in Pennsylvania." According to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania’s Office of Transformation and Opportunity , QTS Salem is a proposed 1,700+ acre technology campus in Salem Township, Pennsylvania, designed to meet growing demand for data center and AI infrastructure. The site is reportedly located within the township’s Overlay Zone, which permits data centers as a primary use by-right. Amazon owns a data center adjacent to the nuclear plant , and is planning to develop more than a dozen buildings on some 1,200 acres of nearby land . Despite its ample power and proximity to existing data center hubs, Pennsylvania has traditionally had a modest data center market, centered around Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. With the recent capacity crunch fueled by increased AI demand, however, Pennsylvania has seen a large number of major data center developments proposed in the last two years. According to DCByte data , the amount of data center capacity live, under construction, committed, and early-stage, jumped from 231MW in 2021 to around 7.8GW in 2025. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers Building the next generation of data centers: Where industrial expertise meets digital urgency Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 18 Feb 2026 Cryptominer NFN8 files for bankruptcy, following data center fire and Bitcoin price crash Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Luzerne County Pennsylvania QTS Salem Township Comments