Vantage plots data center campus in Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News Construction & Site Selection Vantage plots data center campus in Atlanta, Georgia Company files plans for 1.7 million sq ft, three-building campus in Douglasville August 21, 2023 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Vantage Data Centers plans to build a new campus in the Douglas County area of Atlanta, Georgia. First reported by BizJournal , Vantage wants to build almost 1.7 million square feet of data center space across three buildings in Douglasville, according to a filing with the state through the Developments of Regional (DRI) program. – Vantage Data Centers Though the project is described as “construction of a data center with two buildings at 402,000 square feet, 595,000 square feet, and 660,000 square feet,” the project size is listed as “1,657,000 square feet (153,940 sqm) across three buildings.” A precise location isn't listed, but the DRI makes reference to Roberts Road in Douglasville and lists a project completion date of December 2025. Vantage didn’t reply to BJ’s request for comment. This would be the company’s first development in Georgia. Vantage currently has US data center campuses in Virginia , Washington, Arizona , and California . Douglas County, to the west of Atlanta, is already home to a number of data center operators. Switch , Google , Microsoft , and T5 all have or are developing data centers in the area – largely around Lithia Springs or Douglasville. CyrusOne developed a campus there around 2017 but sold the site in 2021. EdgeConneX is also seemingly interested in developing in Douglasville. More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 02 Dec 2025 SMR developer Deep Atomic proposes nuclear-powered AI data center at Idaho National Lab Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 16 Mar 2026 Oklahoma's Rock Volunteer Fire Department rejects $250,000 donation from Google linked to data center Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Georgia Douglasville Vantage Data Centers Vantage Douglas County Atlanta Comments