TA Realty files for 1 million sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel TA Realty files for 1 million sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia Company files for project in Union City November 04, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say TA Realty has filed to build a data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia. The company has filed an application with the Georgia Department of Community Affairs to build a data center campus at 7170 Red Oak Road in Union City, Fulton County. TA Realty files to develop data centers in Union City – Google Maps According to the filing, the ATL03/Red Oak site will include four data center buildings – each spanning 250,000 sq ft (23,225 sqm) – for a total of approximately 1 million sq ft (92,905 sqm). The project is set to complete in 2030. The site, southwest of Atlanta, is located close to a substation and power lines. The property owner is listed as Brightstar Commercial Properties LLC. Atlanta is a major data center hub with operators including Microsoft, CoreSite, QTS, DataBank, Flexential, Switch, DC Blox, Edged Energy, Stack, T5, Vantage, and EdgeConneX. North American real estate investment firm TA Realty launched a dedicated hyperscale data center development arm earlier this year . In July, TA Realty partnered with EdgeConneX to develop a 324MW data center campus in Atlanta . Details weren’t shared but reports suggest it could be in the Union City area, at a site along Stonewall Tell Road just north of South Fulton Parkway. TA Realty also recently received the green light from Clayton County officials for a data center project in Ellenwood, southeast of Atlanta. Outside Atlanta, the Mitsubishi Estate-backed company is developing a 430MW build-to-suit campus in Virginia's Loudoun County with an unnamed cloud services provider. Full build-out of the Leesburg site is expected in 2027. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 06 Mar 2026 Construction begins on Telia Lietuva data center in Vilnius, Lithuania Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in Colocation & Wholesale NTT Global Data Centers Guide to India data center expansion 31 Mar 2026 Airtel’s Nxtra secures $1 billion in investment for India expansion 20 Mar 2026 Developer effectively withdraws application for data center in Fayetteville, Georgia Tags Georgia 7170 Red Oak Road ATL03 Union City TA Realty Fulton County EdgeConneX Atlanta Comments