Rezoning requests approved for data center outside Toledo, Ohio - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Rezoning requests approved for data center outside Toledo, Ohio Details unknown September 02, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say Rezoning requests for a data center outside Toledo, Ohio, have been approved. The land parcels are located in Oregon, a city in Lucas County east of Toledo. It should not be confused with the western American state of Oregon, nor the various other American cities, towns, and communities with the same name. – Getty Images The Oregon City Council unanimously approved requests for seven land parcels totaling 20 acres to be rezoned from ‘Agricultural District’ to ‘Advanced Manufacturing District’. All parcels lie on either Corduroy or North Wynn Road. Details about the facility’s end user, its size, and its projected capacity are unknown. Mayor Mike Seferian told the Toledo Blade that the data center projects would contribute an additional $20 million to the city’s general budget. “If everything goes well with this project, it would generate the same amount as the 2.25 percent payroll income tax. That is why it is such a big deal to us.” “Everyone in the entire city would gain with the improvement or expansion of city services due to this enormous revenue stream addition to the city.” Local residents expressed their concerns about the facility at the public meeting. These included worries about the facility's potential environmental and visual impact, its impact on Oregon’s water and electricity supply, and that approval of this project would initiate a domino effect for more data centers. Toledo is not a prominent data center market. Most of Ohio’s data centers are clustered around the state capital Columbus, with secondary markets in Cleveland and Cincinnati. Meta announced its plans for a data center campus outside Toledo in Northwest Ohio in April of this year. The tech giant reportedly invested $800m in the 280-acre facility, which will offer 715,00 sq ft (66,425 sqm) of floor area. More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 12 Jan 2026 Microsoft plans $400m data center in Castroville, Texas Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 23 Apr 2026 Hyundai Heavy Industries inks 684MW natural gas turbine supply deal with Aperion to power US data center market Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Lucas County Ohio Oregon City Oregon City Council Toledo Comments