AI data center to occupy 10 acres in Dalton: Residents worry about noise and disruption Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 67 ° Sat 75 ° Sun 82 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY AI data center to occupy 10 acres in Dalton: Residents worry about noise and disruption by Meg Doyle Fri, March 14, 2025 at 5:14 PM Updated Tue, April 1, 2025 at 3:41 PM 4 VIEW ALL PHOTOS Technician working on server. Getty Images. Comment on this story 1 Comment Share story Share topics: AI data center Dalton Noise concerns Whitfield County Job opportunities Rezoning Residents Chairman Jensen DALTON, Ga. — An artificial intelligence data center could provide new job opportunities to Whitfield County. But some Dalton residents say the center would disrupt their way of living. On Monday, the Whitfield County Board of Commissioners approved to rezone more than 150 acres from general agriculture and rural residential to heavy manufacturing. Click here to view the PDF file This blueprint is the building plan for the AI data center. Chairmen Jevin Jensen says it will only take up about 10 acres of almost 175 acres of land. Technician working on server. Getty Images. Jensen says the property is hilly, and would cost too money to level the landscape. "So no other plans beyond just that one data center and then possibly a second one," Jensen says. Jensen also says the data center would provide new opportunities to Whitfield County Residents. "An AI data center has a different type of skill set that we're looking for. So both from the jobs and from the dollar investment standpoint, it's really a win for the county." But on Monday, over 100 residents showed up at the weekly commission meeting to voice their concerns. The proposed site of the data center. Image: WTVC Sasha Cordle lives nearby the property where the data center will be housed. She says her son has autism, and is worried of a low frequency humming noise from the facility. "The constant humming of the of the data center from the cooling and all the noise is going to drive him crazy." But Chairman Jensen says the humming shouldn't be a problem because Cordle and her son live more than 100 feet away from the property line. Image: The Associated Press "Plus it's concrete wall, I've not seen any study that says that frequency will penetrate these solid concrete walls," Jensen says. Residents feel like their voices are not being heard. "It's still going to be something that's being brought in here that's going to interrupt our land and our way of life," Cordle says. Chairman Jensen says the company plans to have the first data center open by July of 2026. Comment with Bubbles READ THE COMMENTS (1) Depend on us to keep you informed as we learn more. Trending Bradley County teacher under TBI investigation had prior suspension, records show Newly released records are shedding more light on a Bradley Central High School teacher now under investigation.Documents we obtained through an open records re Tennessee lawmakers pass bill clarifying when property owners can shoot trespassers A heated exchange on the Tennessee House floor broke out Thursday as lawmakers passed a bill that would more clearly define when property owners can claim self- 13 pounds of meth seized in McMinn County after weeks-long drug investigation A weeks-long drug investigation in McMinn County has led to a major meth seizure and at least one arrest.Authorities say the operation happened Monday in Athens Finally: Chattanooga’s I-75/I-24 split now officially open after major rebuild project One of Chattanooga’s busiest traffic choke points is finally getting relief.State leaders marked the completion of major work at the I-75 and I-24 interchange F Chattanooga man cited after deputies find 100 kids, alcohol at Signal Mountain prom party A noise complaint led deputies to what court documents call a large after-prom drinking party on Signal Mountain.Deputies were called to a home on Wilson Avenue NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 5 Chattanooga projected to gain 3,200 jobs in 2026, but recovery expected to be slow 3 Tennessee park safety bill tied to 2024 greenway killing stalls this session 5 Growing wildfires blamed for destruction of 120 GA homes, death of FL firefighter 5 Cleveland uses school bus cameras: Would it help with illegal passers in other districts?