QumulusAI gets approval for modular data center in Denton, Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel QumulusAI gets approval for modular data center in Denton, Texas Will be located near Western Boulevard and Jim Christal Road February 03, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say AI compute company QumulusAI has received approval for a modular data center in Denton, Texas. The company secured the greenlight in January 2026 for the project in the Dallas-Fort Worth metro, and will be used to provide AI and cryptomining services, reports Community Impact . – Denton The project is planned for around four acres of land near Western Boulevard and Jim Christal Road, and will operate near the RD Wells substation. The land is being leased from the city for around $20,000 annually for the next 10 years, as agreed in August 2024 . Based on the site plan, Qumulus seeks to establish up to eight data center modules on the site, as well as switching cubicles and office space. An estimated 20MW of capacity is required. The data center modules are described, including but not limited to "pods, shipping containers, cargo containers, and similar storage containers that are used for the sole purpose of remote storing, gathering, processing, and/or analyzing large amounts of data information." The data centers will use a closed-loop cooling system with non-conductive fluid and will not require any water, according to Qumulus' director of engineering, Spencer Smith. Denton previously put out a call for data center proposals near the substation in 2022. QumulusAI raised $500 million in a blockchain-backed facility to fund its AI compute infrastructure buildout in October 2025. Founded in 2019, Qumulus is a GPU cloud company. Details about its data center footprint are sparse, but according to its website, the company uses mostly prefabricated data centers and aims to achieve a PUE of 1.1. It eventually seeks to have access to 100MW of behind-the-meter natural gas to support its footprint. Currently, the company offers access to the Nvidia B200, H200, and H100 GPUs via its HPC cloud, among others Denton, and the wider Dallas-Fort Worth area, has seen a lot of interest from data center developers. A notable development in Denton is underway by CoreWeave and CoreScientific. Earlier this year, CoreWeave revealed it had deployed 16,000 GPUs at the site. Data center providers in Dallas-Fort Worth currently developing or operating data centers include Equinix, Cyrus One, Stream, CleanArc, and more. More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 20 Feb 2026 Proposed data center in New Brunswick, New Jersey, denied by local authorities Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 17 Feb 2026 Muhlenberg, Ohio, introduces year-long moratorium on new data centers Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Dallas Fort Worth Denton QumulusAI Texas Comments