Former site of Springdale power plant could become high-tech AI data center - CBS Pittsburgh All News KDKA Investigations Politics Consumer Business HealthWatch Entertainment Galleries KDKA+ Pittsburgh Weather School Closings/Delays Submit Weather Photos Weather Watchers Out For A Walk Forecast Hey Ray Classroom Weather Latest CBS Sports HQ Steelers Penguins Pirates Pitt Riverhounds High Schools Nightly Sports Call Inside The Huddle FAN N'ATION #1 Cochran Sports Showdown Odds Pittsburgh Today Live Talk Pittsburgh Intersections KD Quiz Nightly Sports Call #1 Cochran Sports Showdown Seen on KDKA KD Quiz Intersections KDKA In Your Neighborhood Sunday Spotlight Meet the Team Contact Us Contests & Promotions Advertise Download the App Watch CBS News The former site of the Cheswick Generating Station in Springdale could become the home of Allegheny County's first high-tech hyperscale artificial intelligence data center, allowing it to support companies like Facebook, Apple, and Microsoft. Community members and leaders gathered at the borough building in Springdale on Wednesday night to hear developers share preliminary details about the project and answer questions. The project would likely create 80 to 100 permanent jobs, developer Brian Regli said on Wednesday. It would likely use 180 megawatts of energy, the equivalent of 20% of what the old Three Mile Island Nuclear Generating Station produced, he said. One neighbor shared that an economic analysis should be conducted for ratepayers. "I wonder how their electricity bills are gonna change, how their water bills are gonna change, how their internet bills are gonna change with all this additional demand," one man shared. "Power is a significant issue," Regli said. "I don't want to come to this table and deny that." It's a problem that can be solved if everyone works together, he said. "What we're presenting to you today is an opportunity to bring some of the most advanced technology, some of the largest investments in this particular zone, into this community of Springdale Borough," Regli said. After an initial draw of water from a municipal water source, not the river, the data center would reuse water for cooling. Officials have not decided on where they would get the power for the center, but the variety of options in western Pennsylvania is a reason why locating a data center here is attractive, the developer said. Neighbors also raised concerns about noise and light pollution. Noise would be kept within local set standards, a member of the developer's team said. Much of the data center would not be seen from the street because of existing trees, which would remain, the developer said. Asked about the potential for negative health impacts, Regli said he knew of none. While the 80 to 100 jobs created are not as many as other uses, there would be fewer impacts to the community because it is a data center, he said. "You're not talking about something that necessarily needs an advanced degree. You're talking about somebody who has strong mechanical skills, who knows how to build things," Regli said. "And frankly, there are a lot of people in western Pennsylvania that know how to build things." In: Allegheny County Artificial Intelligence Featured Local Savings Developers pitch AI data center to replace generating station in Springdale Developers pitch AI data center to replace generating station in Springdale 03:55 Developers pitch AI data center to replace generating station in Springdale (03:55) Applicants struggle to stand out as AI hiring tools reshape job search Victim has "nothing left" as AI fuels a surge in crypto fraud schemes Robots are learning to do human tasks at a factory in Watertown Pittsburgh-area booster treasurer charged with stealing $18,000 Baltimore leaders react as inspector general faces fallout after sharing AI-generated photo of mayor Interest in "service industry" jobs soars as AI threatens many white‑collar careers Oakland pet owner looking for her lost dog targeted by scammers using AI Two 3-year-olds drown at Crisp County home, police and GBI investigating View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue