Intersect Power files to develop data center in Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Intersect Power files to develop data center in Texas Company looks to build site near Pampa renewable assets February 09, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say An energy company being acquired by Google’s parent company has filed to develop a data center in Texas. A Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation application was recently filed for a data center in Miami, a city in Texas. – Intersect Power Project Pumpkin 2A would see a single-story data center building and associated central utility buildings developed on land at 8830 Co. Rd 21. Construction on the 761,000 sq ft (70,699 sqm) project is set to run from February 2026 to December 2027. Some $400 million is set to be invested. The owner of the site is IP Meitner Land LLC, a known affiliate of energy firm Intersect Power. The application may have some incorrect details, as Miami is listed in Gray County, when it is actually located in Roberts County. Intersect has a known development in nearby Pampa, which is located in Gray County. Pampa is some 60 miles (96.5km) northeast of Amarillo, while Miami is a further 23 miles (37km) northeast. Intersect is a US-based clean energy company with a portfolio of 2.2GW of operating solar PV and 2.4GWh of battery storage in operation or construction – mostly in Texas and California. The company is being acquired by Google’s parent, Alphabet. Intersect Power is known to be targeting a $3 billion data center development in the Pampa area of Gray County, south of Miami, known as the Meitner Project. The company broke ground on the project in December : three buildings totaling 2 million sq ft (185,806 sqm) are reportedly planned, comprising some 840MW of behind-the-meter capacity. Intersect had previously planned to produce green hydrogen on the site before pivoting to solely data centers. The company first partnered with Google in 2024 to develop colocated renewable power and storage technologies with new data centers across the US, including Texas . Subscribe to our daily newsletters Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter series. More in Cloud & Hyperscale Accelerating hyperscale deployments in the AI era 01 Dec 2025 Applied Digital completes first data center building at North Dakota campus Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in Critical Power Inside the AI rack: power, fabric, and fiber 26 Feb 2026 Dalia Energy plans Israel’s "biggest data center" Episode Tech showcase: Smarter power distribution with BESS Tags Behind-the-Meter Google Gray County IP Meitner Land LLC Intersect Power Miami Pampa Project Pumpkin Roberts County Texas Comments