Penzance targets 600MW data center campus in West Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Penzance targets 600MW data center campus in West Virginia Company developing near the Potomac, close to state border with Maryland March 03, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Real estate firm Penzance is developing a large data center campus in West Virginia. Governor of West Virginia Patrick Morrisey last week announced Penzance Management would be investing $4 billion in a data center campus in the state. Render of Penzance's planned data center in Fairfax County, Virginia – Penzance Located on 548 acres in the Falling Waters District of Berkeley County, Penzance’s Bedington Campus will total approximately 1.9 million square feet (176,515 sqm) and deliver 600MW of critical IT capacity at full build-out. Timelines for development weren’t shared. "This $4 billion investment is a historic win that proves West Virginia can compete at the highest level for the global tech economy,” said Governor Morrisey. “By earning the state’s first High Impact Intelligence Center designation, Penzance is helping us transform the Mountain State into a powerhouse for artificial intelligence and cloud computing. This project brings a massive new revenue stream to our communities - all driven by private capital and our commitment to a business-friendly, reliable energy strategy." "West Virginia has created a truly business-friendly environment for companies investing in digital infrastructure," added Penzance managing partner and founder, Victor Tolkan. “We look forward to a successful partnership with Berkeley County, the West Virginia Department of Commerce, and the State of West Virginia." Governor Morrisey’s announcement noted that the project would be made possible by the Power Generation and Consumption Act and House Bill 2002, legislation designed to streamline permitting, expand microgrid use, and allow companies to utilize coal, natural gas, and other reliable energy resources. Tolkan said that Governor Morrisey had “championed” policies that position West Virginia as a “leader” in the data economy. He said: “Initiatives like HB 2014 and the High Impact Intelligence Center program demonstrate a clear commitment to attracting and supporting world-class intelligence center development.” The campus has been officially designated a “High Impact Intelligence Center,” though it's unclear what the designation means in practice. Berkeley County is located in the Shenandoah Valley in the eastern panhandle region of West Virginia, close to the Mountain State’s border with both Virginia and Maryland. Martinsburg is the largest city in the county. Berkeley County Commission president Eddie Gochenour added: “Following productive preliminary discussions with project leadership, Berkeley County officials, and Governor Morrisey’s team, I am very optimistic about this project. We have already identified a significant opportunity to potentially utilize reclaimed water, which will lower costs for the company, save taxpayer money for the county, and preserve our vital natural resources.” Founded in 1996, Penzance is focused on residential, industrial, office, and data center developments. It owns a number of office, industrial, and flex sites in the wider DC area. It is developing a data center project in Fairfax County, Virginia, that is set to be leased to Amazon . West Virginia has a small data center market, but several large-scale projects are potentially coming to the state. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 28 Nov 2025 Proposed EdgeConneX data center in Pickaway County, Ohio, facing criticism Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 01 Apr 2026 OpenAI closes funding round, raises $122bn at $852bn valuation Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Falling Waters Penzance West Virginia Comments