Reno planning commission approves existing minor data center GOVERNMENT Reno planning commission approves existing mini data center on Gardner Street Jaedyn Young Reno Gazette Journal Sept. 22, 2025, 5:02 a.m. PT Reno’s planning commission voted unanimously to approve an existing data center’s business license on Wednesday, Sept. 17, after the site has operated with no complaints for 26 years. This building, established in 1999 as a communication facility, exists along Gardner Street and West Second Street in Reno and takes up approximately 0.28 acres. The site was later acquired by the current owner, Lumen Technologies, in 2017. According to Lumen Technologies’s representative Mario Torregrossa, 90% of the building is a telecommunications hub and only 10% is for data storage. “This is not a true data center,” Torregrossa told the commission. “It’s more for phone and cellular communications than it is for data storage. There are no plans at this time to change or increase the data center portion of this building.” The city's business licensing team did an audit this year to look at potential sites that they thought might be operating as a data center, according to Reno's associate planner Leah Picotti. During the audit, it was found Lumen Technologies had the utility license for the site, but did not know they needed an updated business license. The City Council voted to not add code regulations on data centers in February, and instead stick to running a data center through the conditional-use permit process. Since data centers require obtaining a conditional-use permit with their business license, the final decision of projects like these go to the Planning Commission to approve. Commissioner Manny Becerra said this was an example of where they could look at possibly setting different regulations for different types of data centers. “I really think that this is very different than the data centers we’ve seen previously, in terms of scale and scope, and it’s an existing use, so I can get behind an approval,” Commissioner Kerry Rohrmeier said. The existing Lumen data center uses two megawatts in energy and two acre-feet of water per year, which is much less than the North Valleys data center which is expected to use eight megawatts and eight acre feet of water per year. Picotti said they believe they will also use much less water and energy, and that the city is confident the two measurements will be the very maximum amount the site will use. Jaedyn Young covers local government for the Reno Gazette-Journal. Her wages are 100% funded by donations and grants; if you’d like to see more stories like this one, please consider donating at RGJ.com/donate . Send your story ideas and feedback to Jaedyn at jyoung@rgj.com . Featured Weekly Ad