Amazon purchases nearly 600 acres in Fayette County for new data center | NBC4 WCMH-TV Skip to content by: Katie Millard Posted: Jan 22, 2025 / 12:00 PM EST Updated: Jan 22, 2025 / 02:56 PM EST SHARE JEFFERSONVILLE, Ohio ( WCMH ) — Amazon purchased around 590 acres of land in northwest Fayette County for $102.4 million, part of a $5 billion investment into Jefferson Township. According to records from the Fayette County auditor, Amazon bought two parcels of land along Interstate 71 between State Route 729 and U.S. 35 on Jan. 15. The two parcels sit on either side of the Dayton Power and Light Company and a Honda plant. The first parcel measures at just over 243 acres and was purchased for $60,206,824.78. The second measures at 346.8 acres and sold for $42,193,317.52. A representative for Amazon confirmed Amazon Web Services (AWS) plans to invest $5 billion into Fayette County by 2030 to establish new data centers there. According to an Amazon representative, construction is expected to begin in early 2025. Over the next five years, the representative said AWS is expected to create more than 100 jobs in Fayette County. “As AWS continues to invest in Ohio, we are grateful to the local leadership in Fayette County who support our ability to grow and innovate on behalf of our customers,” AWS Vice President of Economic Development Roger Wehner said. “We look forward to leveraging our strong public and private partnerships to extend the impact of our investment across the state, and bring new educational and workforce opportunities to the next generation of tech talent.” Amazon’s purchase has been rumored since November , when the Ohio Consumers’ Counsel filed a protest with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission against an agreement between the Dayton Power and Light Company and Amazon. The filing referenced a proposed data center in Jefferson Township. According to the OCC filing, phase one of the new center will be expensive, with network upgrades estimated at around $22.8 million. The filing alleges the deal between Amazon and the power company would give Amazon favorable rates, which the OCC feared would lead to consumers covering the cut costs. Amazon bought the land near the Midwest Mega Commerce Center from the Martin Land Company. According to Ohio Certified Sites, the Midwest Mega Commerce Center is conveniently bordered by two major highways and a shote line railway, and has a 26-inch high pressure natural gas line on site, both incentives for data center operations. This is the first site in AWS’ planned investment of $10 billion by 2030 , which was announced in December. An Amazon representative said the company is expanding in up to eight new sites across Ohio. Add as preferred source on Google Suggest a Correction Close Modal Suggest a Correction Your name (required) Your email (required) Report a typo or grammatical error (required) Submit Correction Δ ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now Storm Team 4 Weather Alert SIGN UP NOW Most read on NBC4 Pickerington celebrates Styles brothers in NFL Draft Woman pleads not guilty in deadly I-270 crash 1 dead, 1 hurt in wrong-way crash on I-270 Parking changes coming soon for John Glenn International Former Galion school contractor sentenced for child … Prosecutors call witnesses in Meade trial UPS driver blames union for $150,000 buyout denial NFL draft live updates: Second and third rounds If SAVE Act passes, here’s what Ohioans need to vote Disqualified governor candidate claims she’s still … Read More Top Stories Trending on NBC4 Pickerington celebrates Styles brothers in NFL Draft Woman pleads not guilty in deadly I-270 crash 1 dead, 1 hurt in wrong-way crash on I-270 Parking changes coming soon for John Glenn International Former Galion school contractor sentenced for child … Prosecutors call witnesses in Meade trial BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks Don't Miss See these free movies in Ohio’s 2026 film celebration More flight options offered from Columbus NBC4 to welcome 5th Puppy on a Mission in April Download the NBC4 streaming app on your smart TV Columbus’s best free indoor play spaces for kids Local News NOW PLAYING National prescription drug take back day returns Dancing for inclusion and community Woman pleads not guilty in deadly I-270 crash NBC4 Sports Extra | Draft Day The Pick Is In Elementary students get a lesson in traffic safety Columbus Fire welcomes new K-9 member More Videos