Data center on Rt. 903 discussed – Times News Online Log In Reset Password My Profile Log in Log out Subscribe Data center on Rt. 903 discussed Tweet Published September 11. 2025 02:45PM by Lori R. Cooper TNEDITOR@TNONLINE.COM Before a special meeting was held inside the Penn Forest Township Municipal Building to talk about amending the zoning ordinance to address data centers, how data centers operate was discussed outside the building. Tim Hendricks, who said he is “under agreement to purchase” 750 acres at Route 903 and Maury Road for a proposed data center, initiated a dialogue with the crowd that had turned out for the meeting Monday evening. “Once the data center is built, nothing else will be built on the land, and part of the land will go back to the township,” Hendricks said. Residents asked Hendricks about electricity and water usage. Concerns about data centers, which are in demand because of the growth of artificial intelligence and cloud computing, include how much power is needed to operate the equipment and how much water is needed to cool the equipment. Other concerns are disturbances to the environment, including noise and air pollution, the displacement of wildlife and the negative impact of the sprawling structures on rural landscapes. Township solicitor Thomas Nanovich explained to the large crowd the purpose of the special meeting once it began. “This meeting is to discuss amending the zoning ordinance for data centers,” he said. “After one and a half years, the township adopted other amendments to zoning. The ordinance currently does not explicitly allow data centers, and the validity of the ordinance could be challenged in court. We are trying to regulate them and minimize negative affects.” Nancy Sercinello, a professional land use planner who was hired by the township hours before the meeting, was available via Zoom for the first 45 minutes. “When writing zoning ordinances, we need to provide regulations such as setbacks and standards,” Sercinello said. “There are not too many data centers, so this is new. We are consulting with municipalities throughout Pa.” She further explained that regulations need to be put in place to include controlling noise, mitigating water usage and setting parameters for energy use without impacting rates to the rest of the community. Resident Ashleigh Davis said, “The lot purchaser said he would not lose any water through evaporation. Yet I heard you can’t recycle water.” It was noted that a water feasibility study can be conducted to mitigate impact on wells. The residents were reminded that this was the start of a general discussion on the zoning ordinance, not a discussion addressing a particular developer. Residents’ input and suggestions included conducting an impact study or dragging out the process and making it “so damn expensive.” The generally lengthy process of zoning changes was explained. After writing the language of the ordinance, it will be reviewed by the county and then be made available for public review before returning to the county. Many residents suggested that something be put in place immediately, to which Nanovich responded, “That is the plan, after having enough information.” Additional concerns about data centers included the size and height of buildings, having enough firefighting apparatus available in case of emergencies, and the environmental safety of what is used at that centers. Much of the discussion centered on where the water for cooling equipment would come from and how that may affect the wells of residents. Nanovich reiterated that Penn Forest would be looking at other townships for examples of ordinances governing data centers as well as height restrictions, landscape buffers, sewage, power supply and aesthetics. Hendricks was given the floor after a resident’s request. He then answered questions about water and cooling but noted that he “has not submitted anything yet.” Supervisor Scott J. Lignore reminded the audience that the supervisors are also township residents. “We all live up here, too,” he said. “We are all together in this.” Supervisor Chris Bartulovich, vice chairman of the board, added: “Keep showing up. The community interest matters. Community involvement lights the fire.” An update on zoning and data centers will be given at the next board of supervisors meeting, which is scheduled for Oct. 6. Residents were advised to check the township’s website, https://pennforesttownship.org/, and Facebook page for updates about meetings. People fill the room at the Penn Forest Township Municipal Building for a special meeting Monday about amending the zoning ordinance to address data centers. LORI R. COOPER/SPECIAL TO THE TIMES NEWS Residents listen to Tim Hendricks talk about data centers before Monday’s special meeting in Penn Forest Township. Hendricks has a purchase agreement for 750 acres at Route 903 and Maury Road, where a data center is proposed. LORI R. COOPER/SPECIAL TO THE TIMES NEWS A map shows property under contract for a possible data center on Maury Road bordering Route 903. DAVID W. ROWE/TIMES NEWS Annual Boris mock draft returns Man found dead near No. 9 mine in Lansford Coroner releases identity of man found near Coal Mine Tamaqua removes East End from service Slatington man gets 9-24 months for posing as a medical professional Back to Top ABOUT TIMES NEWS 594 Blakeslee Boulevard Drive West Lehighton, PA 18235 CONNECT WITH US