Menomonie city council votes to adopt proposed land annexation and rezoning | News | wqow.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close 18 News Download Our Apps 18 Storm Track Weather Submit a News Tip Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Sam Fristed Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save MENOMONIE (WQOW) - The Menomonie City Council voted Monday night to move forward with annexing and rezoning land in Dunn County into the city. The land is currently part of the town of Red Cedar between 650th and 690th Avenue north of I-94. 18 News reported that residents in the area were raising concerns with members of the city council after learning the proposed developers of the land was an LLC named 'Balloonist LLC.' Related: City of Menomonie provides annexation development update while residents raise concerns Some of those concerns are the project Balloonist LLC's is proposing on the land would be a data center. On Monday night's city council meeting residents took to the podium to voice their concerns ahead of the vote. One passionate resident has property along the land in question. "What's going to end up happening if this data center gets installed? I'm not going to be able to live there," the resident said. "I'm not going to be able to resell my property. I'm not going to live there and be able to be happy. And for what? AI?" After two hours of public comment the city council discussed the proposed annexation and rezoning stressing their vote tonight was just about the land, not what will be developed on it. The motion to annex the land and rezone it from it's current agriculture status passed. Have a story idea? Let us know here Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Katie Phernetton Evening Anchor Katie Phernetton came to News 18 in 2018 from her hometown of Green Bay. The proud cheesehead anchors the 6 and 10 p.m news on weekdays. Follow Katie Phernetton More From News 18 News Why stretch of I-94 in Eau Claire County is susceptible to crashes Updated Aug 24, 2022 Pro Sports MLB lockout: what we know -- a timeline Updated Mar 2, 2022 News Man on sex offender registry to live in Chippewa Falls Updated Mar 27, 2024 News WATCH LIVE 1:30 p.m.: Gov. Evers 1st press conference since Supreme Court ruling May 14, 2020 News How cities across the US are preparing for Trump’s immigration crackdown Jan 21, 2025 Wake Up Wisconsin MUST SEE: Female Marine Corps veteran turns 100 Jul 20, 2018 Recommended for you © Copyright 2026 Allen Media Broadcasting , 5545 Hwy 93 Eau Claire, WI | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital .