AWS plans data center in Covington, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel AWS plans data center in Covington, Georgia Company gets approval for nearby water reuse facility December 18, 2025 By Georgia Butler Have your say Amazon Web Services (AWS) is planning a data center in Covington, just outside of Atlanta, Georgia. Details about the data center project remain sparse, but Covington News and WSB-TV report that the company has made a $100 million agreement with the city to construct a water treatment and cooling facility to support the data center. – Google Maps Decided during a December 15 city council meeting, the treatment facility will be used by a data center that AWS is developing along Alcovy Road. “This new project is expected to generate significant new tax revenues to support local priorities such as schools, public safety, and infrastructure, creating meaningful benefits for the community," Amazon spokeswoman Simone Griffin said. "We are also proud of our water innovations as part of this project, which limits water usage to only six percent of the year, with the remaining 94 percent relying on only outside air for cooling,” “In addition, we are funding and building a first-of-its-kind reclaimed water system that will help preserve over 45 million gallons of freshwater annually once operational.” AWS confirmed that the project is part of the $11bn investment plan for Georgia announced at the start of the year, focused in Butts County and Douglas County. Covington is just north of Butts County, in Newton County. AWS previously acquired 430 acres of land along the I-20 across three deals in Covington for $36m in January 2024. At the time, however, it was not stated whether the site would be used for a data center project. Alcovy Road crosses over the I-20. Currently, no information about the data center project – its size or expected IT capacity – has been shared. However, in March 2025 , a company known as Universal Planning LLC filed a Development of Regional Impact application this week with the Georgia Department of State Affairs for a data center campus known as the Gregory Road Data Center. Gregory Road intersects with Alcovy Road. The Gregory Road Data Center project is described as a data center campus occupying “multiple buildings up to 1.41 million square feet” (130,993 sqm) on approximately 213 acres, and was estimated to see up to $5.7bn invested. In the Covington City Council meeting agenda, it is referred to as "Project Lighthouse," which also seems to be the name of a data center project in Douglas County . Meta has a data center just outside Social Circle also in Newton County, while Sailfish Investors recently filed to develop another 1.78 million sq ft (165,365 sqm) data center campus along Social Circle Parkway. TPA is also seeking to develop in the county. More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 24 Feb 2026 Amazon looks to build large-scale data center campus next to nuclear plant in Texas Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 14 Jan 2026 Former Scotiabank data center for sale in Ontario, Canada Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment Tags AWS Amazon Web Services Covington Georgia Newton County Comments