Commission: $4 billion AI data center likely to go forward | News | Maryville Forum Skip to main content × Thank you for reading! Please log in, or sign up for a new account and purchase a subscription to support local journalism. Please purchase a subscription to support local journalism. Your current subscription does not provide access to this content. Sign Up Log In Online Only Subscription Starting at $29.00 for 365 days Get Started View all rates Rate Price Duration Annual $29.00 for 365 days One Month $5.00 for 30 days Week $3.00 for 7 days Print and Online This all-access subscription includes print delivery of the Thursday paper, access to all online news and pages, and daily news delivered to your email inbox. Please allow 24-36 hours for the online account to activate as part of this subscription selection. Free access for current print subscribers Free access for current print subscribers Get Started Have a promo code? Find Offers × Have a promo code? Find Offers Back You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email JORDAN HARRISON/UNSPLASH Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email Print Copy article link Save MARYVILLE, Mo. — Nodaway County Commissioners said a company considering whether to build a $4 billion AI data center south of Maryville plans to make a decision by the end of June. The three commissioners, who have met and spoken with representatives from the developers multiple times over the past several months, said they think the project is likely to move forward. The current plans for the facility include an off-grid natural gas generator that would be used specifically for the data center, the commissioners said, and a potential agreement to recycle wastewater from the city of Maryville to mitigate water consumption. North District Commissioner Chris Burns said the facility that could be built in Nodaway County is what’s called a “hyperscale” data center used for artificial intelligence applications. A hyperscale data center is an especially large facility that houses a huge number of servers that can be used at scale to perform massive computational tasks and requires a significant amount of power. In an email Wednesday, Nicole Green, head of marketing at Scale Microgrids, said the project is in active development. Many details, including the plans discussed with local leaders, are still being evaluated. “We want to be thoughtful about how and when we share information to ensure it is accurate and consistent,” Green said. In the “near term,” the company plans to set up a project website to serve as the central source for updates, project details and frequently asked questions, once those details have been finalized, she said. “We are committed to being a transparent and constructive partner with Nodaway County and the surrounding community as the project evolves,” Green said. Energy As first reported by KXCV-KRNW Radio , the Chicago-based company Reload Energy had been developing the project. In February, Reload was purchased by New Jersey-based Scale Microgrids, which specializes in projects that utilize independent power systems with multiple sources of generation, or microgrids. The large demand placed on power grids and the higher costs passed on to other customers have been major sources of opposition to data centers across the country, including in Missouri. A growing trend is for data centers to use their own “behind-the-meter” power plants that provide the companies with cheaper electricity than having to buy it at retail prices from a utility. That allows data center developers to avoid some of the blowback and to sidestep the sometimes slow regulatory process to purchase energy from a utility. Some facilities are entirely independent while others combine their own power generators or plants with electricity purchased from a utility. The Nodaway County site would generate at least some of its own power with natural gas, the commissioners said, but it’s not clear if that is the only power the data center would use. According to Reload’s website, the company focuses on gigawatt-scale facilities, which is common for hyperscale data centers. Evergy announces plan for natural gas power plant near Maryville MARYVILLE, Mo. — Evergy announced plans Tuesday to construct a 440 MW natural gas power plant just south of Maryville. The commissioners said that developers have contracted with the owners of more than 500 acres on the east side of U.S. Highway 71, across from the future site of a separate natural gas power plant near the intersection with 340th Street that Evergy plans to have online by 2030 . That plant will produce 440 megawatts. An electrical substation is also near that site, and because of the Evergy plant, a natural gas pipeline will already be at the location as well. The commissioners said the site was selected as a prime candidate because it checks four important boxes: access to land, energy, fiber internet and water. Water Water had been a sticking point for the feasibility of the data center, which would use water to help cool the rows and rows of servers. Initially, the developers said they would need about a million gallons of water per day, Maryville City Manager Ryan Heiland told The Forum. That wouldn’t have been possible for the city to provide, even with a new water treatment plant on the way. Newer plans, though, include a more innovative solution that would use recycled wastewater in a closed-loop system. No agreements have been signed or plans finalized. However, Heiland said that one possibility is for the city of Maryville to sell wastewater to Public Water Supply District No. 1, which would treat the water at a new, small treatment facility built in coordination with the data center developer near or at the data center site. That water would be used at the data center for cooling. The commissioners said the center would build up a reserve of about 9 million gallons that would be recycled in a closed-loop system. Then the daily demand, Heiland said, would be “a couple hundred thousand gallons,” based on estimates he said he’s been presented with from the company. The city produces about 700,000 gallons a day, he said, which is discharged into the One Hundred and Two River after ensuring it meets environmental standards. The data center’s wastewater would also need to meet standards from the Missouri Department of Natural Resources. The department, Heiland said, is supportive of the idea. Tax revenue The commissioners told The Forum that they have little control over whether the data center is built because the developers have come to agreements with private landowners and the county does not have zoning laws. The commissioners’ biggest role, they said, is in determining potential tax abatements. “No. 1, we wanna tax them,” said North District Commissioner Chris Burns. “(But) to get them to come here, you’ll probably have to give some type of abatement.” The company has not presented a formal proposal for a tax abatement, but did provide revenue estimates with a 50 percent property tax abatement. The commissioners did not share the exact figures, but said the amount of revenue would still be substantial. The facility would be located in the South Nodaway R-IV School District. The commissioners said they are looking at offering Chapter 100 bonds to the company, which is a state program that essentially allows a local government, through an agreement with a major job creator, to assume ownership of a company’s property and then lease the property back to the company. That exempts the property from taxes since it is now owned by a local government. In exchange, the company then pays a lower amount to “rent” their property from the local government. City starts wrap-up of 10-year Kawasaki tax abatement MARYVILLE, Mo. — The Maryville City Council on Monday took the first step t