Millard County approves solar farm project for AI data centers despite public opposition Advertisement Advertisement Return to Homepage Top Stories: DOJ revives firing squads Golden orb ocean discovery Netanyahu cancer diagnosis $400K Maduro capture bet Israel-Lebanon ceasefire Oklahoma tornado ICE and Border Patrol funding Medical marijuana reclassification Navy secretary ousted Judge blocks Va. voting maps Millard County approves solar farm project for AI data centers despite public opposition DELTA, Utah ( ABC4 ) — The Millard County Commission approved the rezoning of thousands of acres of land for solar projects to support AI data centers coming to the area, despite many residents’ disapproval. On June 3, 2025, the Millard County Commission unanimously voted in favor of a rezone, appropriating over 1,100 acres of agricultural land for heavy industrial use. The center would house high-density data banksthat can be leased to major tech corporations for a variety of uses, including artificial intelligence. In November, a groundbreaking was held for an artificial intelligence data center campus in Millard County. According to Joule Capital Partners, which is building the center, it will bring economic growth to the region. Advertisement Advertisement Millard County has approved a multi-billion dollar artificial intelligence data center Notably, many residents have expressed concerns about the land rezoning and data center development, arguing that it will harm the area’s agricultural and rural character and could affect natural resources and public safety. On January 21, 2026, the Millard County Commission discussed a proposal from Creekstone Energy, which is currently developing one of the county’s data centers. The proposal asked the council to rezone over 4,400 acres from agricultural land to forest and range land for a solar farm. Steve Stouter, a council member for Creekstone Energy, mentioned that a previous rezoning proposal was denied due to concerns about environmental impact. Their new proposal involves land on the east and west sides of Highway 50, much of which is School Trust Land owned by the Trust Lands Administration (SITLA). Advertisement Advertisement School Trust Lands are lands owned by the government that can be leased for energy and mineral uses, real estate development, and surface resource use. The revenue from those lands goes to benefit Utah schools. AI data centers coming to Millard County raise concerns around water usage in the drought-stricken county Stouter also noted that Creekstone has already leased approximately 1000 acres from SITLA, which is already zoned as forest and range land and can be used for solar panel farms. Notably, there has been controversy over Creekstone acquiring land on the east side of the highway due to environmental concerns. However, Stouter says they only included the east side to avoid splitting land parcels and would not actually be building on it. Advertisement Advertisement Adam Richins, the Millard County Planner, offered the planning commission’s recommendation, which is that the county approves the rezoning motion but only for land on the west side. After his recommendation, the council opened the ordinance for public comment. Public Comment The County Commission received well over an hour of public comment from residents expressing concerns, both in favor of and opposed to the development. Colin Bennett, a resident, spoke in favor of the ordinance. He said, “I’ve been going to about every one of these meetings and the same concerns keep coming up. I believe that Creekstone Energy has made all the concessions to try to meet those concerns.” Spence Butler, a local farmer and rancher, expressed his opposition to the ordinance and believes Creekstone will try to develop on lands outside of their proposal. Butler argued that they have previously advertised development on significantly more acreage than they currently have. Advertisement Advertisement Utah Chief Justice urges legislature to increase public confidence, avoid penalizing judiciary “If that doesn’t tell us where they’re going, we’re not listening. They’re not going to be satisfied until they get the whole East bench,” He said, adding, “You guys can piss down my neck, but don’t tell me it’s raining.” “When public land is considered, the impact on the public should be weighed heavily,” said Whitt Sorenson, a Delta resident, who also opposed the ordinance. “Don’t sell the golden goose (our county’s natural resources) for a short-term benefit when long-term management acts as a stable savings account.” Another resident, Edria Day, came up and shared photos of the flowers, coyotes, and other wildlife in the area that is facing rezoning. She argued that the ordinance should not be passed because it would impact wildlife and strain water resources. Advertisement Advertisement John Nye, the vice chairman of the Millard County Planning and Zoning Commission, spoke and said the commission has previously approved solar farm developments in less visible areas. He believes this would have been approved if not in such a visible area. However, Nye said, “In my opinion, as soon as any solar gets approved for Creekstone Energy, it will be sold for the second or third time since this data center project was permitted. Creekstone will have their profit, and the residents of Miller County will get stuck looking at this project for the next 40 years.” He asked the county commission to deny the ordinance. Ten bills to keep an eye on during the 2026 General Legislative Session Advertisement Advertisement Stacy Lake, another resident, expressed concerns about how rezoning the area would ruin the land’s multipurpose use and about what Creekstone would do if its lease with SITLA ended. Stouter said Creekstone is in active conversations with SITLA to ensure livestock can use the land for grazing and to determine long-term plans for disposing of thesolar panels once their lease ends. Lake said she is not completely opposed to the ordinance, but stated, “The county should definitely take this step by step… if we are going to have something, whether it’s this data center, the other data center, just that Miller County comes out on top, that they’re running the show, that we get the benefits.” Overall, many residents at the city council meeting expressed concerns about private developments on public lands and the environmental impact. The clear majority asked the council to deny the proposal. Motion passes After the public comment period, the county commission discussed the residents’ concerns and whether the solar panel farm could exceed 5,000 acres without additional infrastructure. Advertisement Advertisement Ultimately, the commission discussed creating a development agreement. A development agreement outlines specific terms and conditions for a project and would allow Millard County to impose conditions on the development. In this case, it would be in lieu of a zone change that would allow all uses and restrict developers from building or developing on other parts of the ground. How to make ABC4 your preferred news source on Google “This doesn’t solve everybody’s emotional objections, but it does give us some assurance that the doors aren’t open all the way,” said Bill Wright, one of the commissioners. “We’re going to let three sheep out instead of the whole herd.” Advertisement Advertisement Creekstone said, “If we know we have a pathway forward, we’re not afraid of proposing and working with the county on a development agreement… so that the local government and the developer know what are the rules? What do we want to go going forward?” Ultimately, the commission unanimously passed the motion to rezone the school trust lands to forest and range lands but asked Creekstone to draft a development agreement to be heard by the planning commission at their next meeting. Latest headlines: Charli XCX’s film embodies Sundance Film Festival’s commitment to 