Groundbreaking held for country’s largest data center in Millard County Advertisement Advertisement Return to Homepage Top Stories: DOJ revives firing squads Golden orb ocean discovery Netanyahu cancer diagnosis $400K Maduro capture bet Israel-Lebanon ceasefire Oklahoma tornado ICE and Border Patrol funding Medical marijuana reclassification Navy secretary ousted Judge blocks Va. voting maps MILLARD COUNTY, Utah ( ABC4 ) — Joule Capital Partners hosted a groundbreaking ceremony on Thursday morning to mark a milestone in the development of its new energy and data center campus. The campus, located on 4,000 acres in rural Millard County, was approved by the Millard County Commission in an August meeting. According to Joule Capital Partners, the campus will be an investment in the nation’s energy and technology future, as an artificial intelligence data center campus. Because of the location above sea level, it will provide ‘optimal cooling efficiency’ and will start providing power in 2026. Advertisement Advertisement Millard County has approved a multi-billion dollar artificial intelligence data center Advertisement Advertisement Courtesy: Joule Capital Partners The centers will be house high-density data banks that can be leased to major tech corporations for a number of uses including artificial intelligence. Joule Capital Partners also shared that it would bring economic growth, high-paying jobs, and sustainable innovation to the region and state. “These data centers could be a huge blessing to everyone in Millard County,” Millard County Commission Chair Trevor Johnson said during a public meeting on the rezone in August. Notably, though, the data center has been controversial for some of the residents of Millard County. At the August commission meeting, one resident said he moved to Millard County to avoid industrial zones. Advertisement Advertisement ‘Golden Spike of the internet’: Why AI data centers are coming to Delta “There’s a reason we chose to live there,” He said, “We’d like to try and preserve that as much as we can.” A representative with the Millard County Sheriff’s Office also raised concern that the center will increase traffic on rural roads near the center where there are normally kids and animals. “I have a plan that every citizen will benefit from them being here, not only the ones that work here, not everybody else, but I will make sure that revenues are divided between those people that live in this county and those people that are citizens here that we really appreciate,” Bill Wright, Millard County Commissioner said on Thursday. Advertisement Advertisement Joel Ferry, Executive Director with the Department of Natural Resources said that the project falls within Governor Spencer Cox’s ‘Operation Gigawatt’, an initiative that aims to double Utah’s power production over the next 10 years. “Joule is going to be really at the center of that as we break ground today to build these data centers in a very bright future for Utah,” Ferry added. Latest headlines: Hopeful week ends with deeper funding impasse Five unanswered questions about the historic government shutdown fight Trump wants his name on new Commanders stadium: Report Miner unaccounted for after flood USU stays unbeaten at home with 51-14 win over Nevada Copyright 2025 Nexstar Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. For the latest news, weather, sports, and streaming video, head to ABC4 Utah. View comments About Our Ads Recommended articles No Wemby, no problem: 3 takeaways from the Spurs' Game 3 win over the Trail Blazers Here's how the Spurs took a 2-1 series lead without superstar Victor Wembanyama. Yahoo Sports On verge of history, Blue Jays pitcher Max Scherzer puts up one of the worst starts of the season Scherzer only needed 1 strikeout on Friday to join the exclusive 3,500-strikeout club. He did not get it. Yahoo Sports Sean McVay downplays 'grumpy' demeanor after Rams' selection of Ty Simpson, embraces GM Les Snead McVay's news conference drew more than a few eyebrows after Day 1 of the NFL Draft. Yahoo Sports NYT Connections hints today for #1,049: Clues and answers for Saturday, April 25 This game can be pretty tough, so we've got clues if you're stuck on today's puzzle, #1,049. Yahoo Tech 2026 NFL Draft: Best players still available for Rounds 4-7 Nate Tice and Charles McDonald rank the best players still on the board heading into the final day of the NFL Draft. Yahoo Sports LeBron James hits game-tying shot during Rockets collapse as Lakers take Game 3 in OT How did the Rockets lose that game? The answer involves LeBron James. Yahoo Sports Oklahoma softball sets NCAA single-season HR record with 162 homers The Sooners reset their own mark from 2021, now surpassing it by three home runs. Yahoo Sports Victor Wembanyama ruled out for Spurs' Game 3 vs. Trail Blazers Victor Wembanyama left Tuesday's game with a concussion. Yahoo Sports Kairi Sane, Wyatt Sicks, Aleister Black among flood of WWE roster cuts after WrestleMania 42 More than 15 WWE wrestlers have been released from the company in the wake of WrestleMania 42. Uncrowned NFL Draft's Day 2 winners and losers: Browns had a great 2025 rookie class, and an impressive 2026 group too The Browns added talent on both sides of the ball in the second round of the NFL Draft. Yahoo Sports Advertisement