Prologis data center proposal in Kosciusko County, Indiana, denied - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Prologis data center proposal in Kosciusko County, Indiana, denied Proposal to rezone 550-acre of farmland declined by the county's planning commission April 04, 2025 By Niva Yadav Have your say A data center proposal in Kosciusko County, Indiana, has been rejected. Filed by logistics giant Prologis, the proposal to rezone 550 acres of farmland near Leesburg for a data center project was declined by the county’s planning commission, as reported by WSBT . – Google Maps The site, located between the north side of CR 700N and west of CR 300W, offers access to three 45,000-volt power transmission lines, making it an attractive site for a data center operator. Whilst specifications of the data center are sparse, Prologis estimated the county would receive $35.8 million in tax revenue by the end of a 20-year period. The project was also estimated to support 300 employees. A petition against the data center collected more than a thousand signatures, with local residents citing environmental concerns about losing the farmland. Some residents added that a data center would change the lives of the Amish farming community in the region. The project will now be taken to the Kosciusko County Commissioners for a final verdict on April 22. DCD reported earlier this year that the firm already has 1.4GW of power secured to build data centers and is in negotiations to add 1.6GW more. At the time, the company said it was planning 10GW of data centers over the next 10 years. Prologis began expanding into the data center sector during the Covid-19 pandemic, often partnering with Skybox Datacenters for the builds of facilities, which are usually leased or sold to hyperscalers and data center operators. Prologis' data center efforts have been led by Compass co-founder Chris Curtis since last year. Located in northern Indiana, there are currently no data centers in Kosciusko County. More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 03 Feb 2026 Idaho National Laboratory deploys Teton supercomputer for nuclear reactor modeling Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: The New Physics of US Data Center Infrastructure 13 Mar 2026 Data center pitched in Northumberland, UK Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach Tags Indiana Kosciusko County Leesburg Prologis Comments