Application filed for 5 million sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Application filed for 5 million sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia Spalding County officials to discuss project next week January 07, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Another large-scale data center campus could be coming to Georgia. A Development of Regional Impact application has been filed with the Georgia Department of Community Affairs for a data center campus outside Atlanta in Spalding County. – Google Maps Wallace Jackson, LLC is the applicant. Situated on 189 acres, the Wallace Jackson Data Center Campus could total up to 4.986 million sq ft (463,215 sqm) across ten buildings. The project could reach full build-out by 2035, according to the filing. The landowner is listed as a Doug of Havenwood Holdings. This is likely local developer Doug Adams, who has previously been involved with large warehouse developments in Georgia (and not to be confused with the NTT GDC CEO of the same name). As reported by Griffin Daily News , plans for the campus were first filed with Spalding County officials last year, but were tabled until a meeting scheduled for next week. The company is seeking to rezone from C-2 (Manufacturing) to C-1C (Manufacturing - Light) along with a variance against the exclusion of data centers on land at 5745 and 5841 Jackson Road in Griffin. Two other data center campuses, totaling 3.9 million sq ft (362,321 sqm) of building space, were approved last year by the Spalding County board of commissioners. Spalding Investments LLC had filed to develop eight two-story data centers on 127 acres in Griffin, while Montana Property Group LLC’s Project Spalding campus could total 2.55 million square feet (236,900 sqm). Atlanta, traditionally a Tier 2 market, has quickly become a major hotspot for data center development. DRI applications for more than a dozen campuses, totaling tens of millions of square feet across dozens of buildings, have been filed over the last couple of years. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 19 Dec 2025 Yondr’s second Virginia data center ready for service Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 14 Jan 2026 Cloverleaf backs out of data center project in Greenleaf, Wisconsin Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Atlanta Georgia Griffin Spalding County Spalding County Planning Commission Wallace Jackson Data Center Campus Comments