County commissioners approve data center, power plant facilities south of Cheyenne | Local News | wyomingnews.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email This website uses certain cookies, pixels and similar tracking technologies in order enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Certain information collected by that technology may be shared with our third party partners. By continuing to use this website, you agree to the use of these technologies. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email From left, Laramie County Commissioners Troy Thompson, Ty Zwonitzer, Gunnar Malm, Don Hollingshead and Linda Heath sit during a meeting in Cheyenne on Jan. 6. The commissioners unanimously approved two site plans for a proposed power plant and data center campus to be built south of Cheyenne. Alyssa Tolman/Wyoming Tribune Eagle Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save CHEYENNE — Plans are moving forward on a proposed power plant and a data center campus south of Cheyenne following the Laramie County Board of Commissioners’ approval this week of the two facilities’ site plans. The power plant, referred to as the BFC Power and Cheyenne Power Hub Project, is being spearheaded by Tallgrass Integrated Logistics Solutions LLC, a sustainable energy infrastructure company based in Denver. The power plant will provide power for the Crusoe Energy LLC data center campus. Crusoe is a Denver-based tech company specializing in the development of sustainable infrastructure for AI. The decision came at the end of an almost two-hour public hearing regarding the plans, during which representatives from Tallgrass and Crusoe gave a brief presentation regarding the facilities, and explaining what has been done so far. Location and components Tallgrass’ power plant will be located near the data center campus at Switch Grass Industrial Park, a 1,375-acre plot of land approximately six miles south of Cheyenne — west of U.S. Highway 85 and two miles south of Terry Ranch Road. The power plant will sit on an approximately 659-acre parcel, and the data center campus will be on an approximately 600-acre parcel. According to its site plan, the power plant will be completed in three work phases, with the first phase covering site preparation, the second phase being construction of the facility, and the third phase being cleanup and final reclamation of the non-operating areas of the facility. Some major project components include a fuel cell yard, which is a group of cells producing an electric current directly from a chemical reaction; combined cycle power plants, which will be built as two separate combined cycle turbines; temporary aeroderivative/light duty cycle turbines to provide early generation for initial data center loads; and permanent aeroderivative/light duty simple cycle turbines to provide base load generation to supplement and back up the combined cycle power plant units. Raymon Williams, Tallgrass project director, said the initial development of the power plant will generate up to 2.7 gigawatts of electrical power. “That’s a lot of power,” Williams said. “And that includes a mixture of different technologies, including natural gas, fire turbines, as well as fuel cells. So, it’s going to be a big development. It’s going to be a big deal. And it’s going to be an exciting project for us and for the community of Wyoming.” Williams said the reason Tallgrass chose this specific site south of Cheyenne is because it has reliable access to a natural gas pipeline, and is in proximity to a major interstate and railway corridors, which he said will make it easier to ship in large pieces of equipment. The Crusoe data center campus site plan states that the property will be located eight miles south of Cheyenne — west of CanAm Highway and approximately one mile south of Terry Ranch Road. The campus will be made up of eight buildings — five data center buildings, two support buildings and associated infrastructure. Construction activities are planned to take place in six phases. Phase one will include the master infrastructure to serve the site, such as detention ponds, the looped road system and utility trunklines. Phase two of development includes building #1 with associated infrastructure, such as duct banks, utility tie-ins to the master services and other essential systems. Phases three through six involve building the remaining buildings and their supporting infrastructure, which are Battery Energy Storage Systems. Each data center building will have eight energy storage systems. Another major component of Crusoe’s project is duct banks, which are underground or enclosed pathways that house and protect electrical and communication cables. Construction of the facilities is expected to begin in the first quarter of this year, and the first data center building is expected to be operational by the end of 2027. Keeping the community in mind Williams said Tallgrass and Crusoe officials deliberately designed the project to maximize benefits while minimizing impacts to the surrounding community. He said the project will have no impacts on retail electric customer rates or water infrastructure. “We’re not going to utilize public water resources for our facility,” Williams said. “In fact, for our plant, for our industrial water needs, we’re actually going to source water from the land’s formation and groundwater runoff.” To do this, Williams said Tallgrass officials plan to dig deep groundwater wells, and construct their own on-site wastewater treatment and septic systems. “What I’m getting at here is we’re not going to be a drain on our municipal systems,” Williams said. “We’re going to be very self-sufficient for our industrial facility.” Williams also addressed noise, light and visual concerns, saying the design for the facility includes landscape features, vegetation and possibly commissioned art to make the facility more appealing to the eye. Once the power plant and data center are operational, Williams said officials will assess the benefits of shielding and directional lighting. As for traffic-related impacts, Williams said officials are going to build access points off Terry Ranch Road and U.S. Highway 85, as well as have contractors on site to help route trucks away from residential roads. Matt Field, Crusoe’s chief real estate officer, said Crusoe is continuing to work with the Wyoming Department of Transportation to figure out the best delivery route that avoids impacts to residential areas. They will also be in charge of maintaining and repairing any damage to roads that is caused by shipments. Should any issues arise during construction or operation, Williams said Tallgrass plans to establish a local office in downtown Cheyenne where residents can offer feedback. Tallgrass has also established a community feedback system via email to community@tallgrass.com and phone at 303-968-2105, both of which will be closely monitored throughout the construction process, Williams said. Field said the data center will also use much less water than data centers have historically used, at about 20 U.S. households of water usage per year. To do this, the computers will be cooled using a closed loop system, which allows cooled water to recirculate, rather than needing to constantly refill water tanks. The estimated impact Williams said the two companies are expecting to hire approximately 2,500 workers during peak construction time, and 400 permanent employees. Housing for these workers could include temporary housing, rentals, hotel blocks or RVs. Williams said Tallgrass’ portion of the overall investment will be close to $7 billion. Combined with Crusoe’s investment, that number rises to $50 billion, with over $1 billion goi