Convenience store developer proposes AI data centers in Blakely Advertisement Advertisement Return to Homepage Top Stories: DOJ revives firing squads Golden orb ocean discovery Netanyahu cancer diagnosis $400K Maduro capture bet Israel-Lebanon ceasefire Oklahoma tornado ICE and Border Patrol funding Medical marijuana reclassification Navy secretary ousted Judge blocks Va. voting maps The push for data centers in the Midvalley continues in Blakely. An attorney representing businessman Alpesh “Al” Patel asked Blakely during its planning commission meeting Monday to rezone a large tract of residential land below Business Route 6 and off Terrace Drive to allow an “AI data center,” according to a planning commission agenda. Patel is best known for his Dunmore-based Al’s Quick Stop convenience store chain. The plans call for four roughly 300,000-square-foot total, two-story, 70-foot-tall data center buildings, said borough Manager Chris Paone, who is also Blakely’s zoning officer. The data center campus would look to use 1.5 gigawatts of power, Paone said. For comparison, 1.5 gigawatts of power — or 1,500 megawatts — equals the entire output of the Lackawanna Energy Center, a 1,500-megawatt natural gas-fired power plant in Jessup. Advertisement Advertisement Blakely will hold a public question-and-answer session with the developer at council’s next work session Aug. 13 at 7 p.m. at the Borough Building, 1439 Main St., Paone said. “They can fully explain what they want to do to the entirety of council, and the public can also be there to ask questions, and they could answer questions,” he said. An aerial view shows land behind the Peckville Assembly of God on Route 6 in Blakely Borough Wednesday, Aug. 6, 2025. A developer proposes to build data centers on the land. (SEAN MCKEAG / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER) It is now at least the fifth data center proposal within the Valley View School District, with three data center campuses proposed in Archbald along Business Route 6, Route 247 and Eynon Jermyn Road, and one in Jessup off Hill Street along Breaker Street. There also is a 30-building data center campus proposed for the North Pocono area in Clifton and Covington townships along Interstate 380. Advertisement Advertisement The state Department of Environmental Protection awarded Lackawanna County commissioners nearly $7 million in federal funding in December to reclaim mine land on two of Patel’s properties by removing a mountain of culm in Dickson City and using it to grade the Blakely site for development. A portion of the planned data center site owned by firms linked to Jim Marzolino, who is involved with two of the Archbald data center projects, was previously slated to be a mixed-use development with lots for 40 single-family homes, plus townhouses, as well as commercial space on the large mountain of dirt built up in recent years off Business Route 6 near Terrace Drive. Patel, who was represented by attorney Michael Mey, has not officially applied for a zoning change, but the borough anticipates receiving the application shortly, Paone said. Patel wants the land rezoned from R-1 low density residential, which is Blakely’s most restrictive zoning district, he said. Once they apply for the zoning change, the borough will have 45 days to advertise and hold a public hearing, Paone said. Council could then vote on whether to rezone the land or keep it as a residential district. Advertisement Advertisement Like its neighbors in Archbald and Jessup, Paone said Blakely had started the process of adding data centers to its zoning to have protections in place, making them conditional uses with requirements on items like setbacks and noise, when it was contacted about Patel’s proposal. Municipalities in Pennsylvania are required to allow for every type of lawful land use somewhere within their borders. When zoning excludes uses — something that’s not uncommon with new land uses like data centers — developers can challenge the validity of a town’s zoning — something happening with the data centers in Clifton Twp. However, Paone pointed to a clause in Blakely’s February 2017 zoning ordinance, which was last amended in December 2020, addressing unlisted uses. “When the ordinance was put together, we built in protections for things just like this,” he said. “That clause is there specifically to protect for instances like this.” Advertisement Advertisement The borough didn’t know anything about data centers when it created its zoning ordinance, he said. “Zoning books are like a living document,” Paone said. “They keep maturing over the years, but you can’t predict the future.” Blakely is also in a unique situation because, unlike every other town in Lackawanna County aside from Olyphant, the borough operates its own electric distribution system, which it relies on in lieu of property taxes, by buying power from the grid through American Municipal Power Inc. and receiving the electricity through PPL’s transmission lines. The town is so early in the process that it is still investigating how it would work with a 1.5-gigawatt data center, Paone said. Advertisement Advertisement “Now, 1.5 gigawatts of power is more than Lackawanna and Luzerne counties use, so that’s quite a number,” he said. “That is why Blakely is still doing a lot of investigating on that front.” Patel owns about 44 acres of the site; Two Up Realty LLC of Scranton owns just over 40 acres; and Route 6 Land Development Corp. of Dickson City owns just under 37 acres of the proposed site. The latter two companies, whose land was slated to be commercial and residential uses, are affiliated with Marzolino. In text messages Wednesday, Marzolino explained the switch from residential and commercial development to data centers, saying market conditions with higher interest rates continue to make it challenging for other types of development. He called it an opportunity to share Archbald’s future windfall of tax revenue from data centers, and the project cleans up old mining issues, a former municipal landfill and irregular grades off Business Route 6. The land also falls into a federal opportunity zone, he said. Attempts to reach Patel were unsuccessful Wednesday. Advertisement Advertisement Council Vice President Jeff Cruciani called the proposal to rezone land from single-family homes to data centers a “big ask.” The project is nowhere close to a done deal, and council will have to decide whether to allow it by rezoning the land, he said. “It’s one of the last pieces of land that you could build homes on in the town,” Cruciani said. “I don’t see this project benefiting as much as a residential development.” The borough is neither for nor against data centers until they have all the facts, but Cruciani said his major concern is energy consumption, followed by noise production and pollution. He also questioned the longevity of the data centers and what happens to the buildings, which are often large concrete structures, when they run their course. Although Blakely does not have property taxes, Cruciani noted the tax benefits for the Valley View School District. “The cons are far outweighing the pros at this point,” he said. “I don’t really see that changing.” In addition to Blakely’s meeting Wednesday, state Sen. Rosemary Brown, R-40, Middle Smithfield Twp., requested a Senate Majority Policy Committee public hearing on data center development, which will be held Monday at 1 p.m. at the Valley View High School auditorium, 1 Columbus Drive, Archbald. For those unable to attend, the Senate hearing will be livestreamed at policy.pasenategop.com . View comments About Our Ads Recommended articles Why Jermod McCoy's slide has gone from potential top-10 pick to last day of the NFL Draft Sources told Yahoo Sports that McCoy's knee also had a repair that included a "bone plug." The concern with the procedure is that over time, it can call for re-operation and the kind of chronic cartilage issues that end athletic careers. Yaho