Two big data centers may sprout in San Jose to help meet AI tech boom Skip to content (Sheehan Nagle Hartray Architects) Data center at 350 West Trimble Road in north San Jose, concept. By George Avalos | gavalos@bayareanewsgroup.com | Bay Area News Group PUBLISHED: July 8, 2025 at 8:20 AM PDT | UPDATED: July 29, 2025 at 2:53 PM PDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... SAN JOSE — Two new data centers are being eyed in north San Jose, projects that are poised to supplant prior proposals for a village and advanced tech manufacturer. According to documents on file with city planners, the tech and data hubs would be built at and near 350 West Trimble Rd. on a site between Orchard Parkway and the Guadalupe River. Entry area of a data center at 350 West Trimble Road in north San Jose, concept. (Sheehan Nagle Hartray Architects) Development of the data centers is the latest plan to be floated for the site owned by an affiliate of LBA Realty, a veteran Bay Area real estate firm. In 2019, LBA Realty proposed a village called North Town that would have included office spaces , hotel rooms, shops and restaurants. Proposed development site for two data centers in north San Jose at 350 West Trimble Road, as shown on the map. (LBA Realty, Google Maps) At one time, LBA had owned about 68.1 acres on two parcels at that location. In 2021, LBA sold about 30.6 acres to Microsoft for $78.7 million. Microsoft has proposed the development of two data centers on the property. In 2022, LBA floated new plans for the site that consisted of an advanced manufacturing tech complex totaling 208,000 square feet. Construction has yet to begin on the proposal. The latest plan envisions the development of data centers at the Trimble Road site. According to separate plans on file at San Jose City Hall, there would be a data center and office totaling 206,300 square feet. The data hub would have its own private electrical substation and the project would occur on 18.1 acres. Another data center and office totaling 208,000 square feet would be developed on a 10.3-acre site. The two projects are expected to spark an upgrade of an existing PG&E power station nearby. According to project plans, the switching station at the site would be expanded. Data centers have become an increasingly popular development endeavor for real estate firms because they are crucial hubs for the tech industry’s artificial intelligence push. The massive computing tasks required by AI and machine-learning programs require data centers that can process the demand. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X RevContent Feed More in Real Estate 2025 July 8 Close