Monarch Compute Campus - Fidelis Skip to content Project Monarch Compute Campus Monarch Compute Campus is a next-generation digital infrastructure project designed to meet the growing demands of artificial intelligence and high-performance computing. Spanning 2,250 acres, Monarch offers a scalable and resilient environment for organizations seeking to power advanced technologies and data-driven innovation. With strong support from local and state partners, Monarch is built for long-term growth and sustainability. Its strategic location and thoughtful design make it an ideal destination for companies looking to future-proof their operations while benefiting from reliable, cost-effective infrastructure. Under Code 5B 2-21, the Mountaineer GigaSystem received high-impact industrial business development microgrid district designation, which was recently expanded to include additional power generation pathways with the passage of West Virginia House Bill 2014. This designation uniquely enables onsite power generation that can be used to power Monarch’s AI data centers. April 30, 2025 – West Virginia Governor Morrisey signs House Bill 2014 into law on the Mountaineer GigaSystem & MCC microgrid site April 30, 2025 – Fidelis COO Bengt Jarlsjo addresses stakeholders with Governor Morrisey at the signing ceremony of House Bill 2014 Watch Video May 24, 2025 – Fidelis leadership with U.S. Senator Shelley Moore Capito May 21, 2025 – Fidelis leadership with U.S. Senator Jim Justice Prev Previous Project Mountaineer GigaSystem Next Project AtmosClear Next Scroll to Top To view this website you must first agree to our Disclaimers. I Agree Terms and Conditions Fidelis New Energy, LLC (“Fidelis”) provides this website and the information contained herein for general overview purposes only, and only subject to these terms and conditions (the “Terms and Conditions”). These Terms and Conditions apply to all users. By entering this website or by transmitting any information to the website, you acknowledge and agree to all of the Terms and Conditions. Please read them carefully. If you do not agree to the Terms and Conditions, please do not use this website. Any use of this website in a manner inconsistent with these Terms and Conditions is deemed unauthorized access and may subject the user to civil or criminal penalties. We reserve the right to revise these Terms and Conditions at any time and for any reason, without notice or obligation, by updating this posting. Your continued use of this website following the posting of any changes to the Terms and Conditions will mean that you accept the revised terms. We strongly recommend that you regularly review the Terms and Conditions. Disclaimers This website is not intended to be, should not be used or construed as, and is not, an offer to sell, a solicitation of any offer to buy, or a recommendation of an investment in any security. The website does not contain material information regarding any security, and no offer or solicitation may be made other than through the delivery of definitive offering documents, the information contained in which would supersede any information provided herein. Offers of securities will only be made where lawful, and in compliance with applicable law. Fidelis is not utilizing the website to provide investment or other advice, and no information or material on the website should be considered a recommendation to buy or sell any security, or be relied upon for the purpose of making investment decisions. In addition, no information, content or other materials contained on the website should be construed or relied upon as investment, legal, accounting, tax or other professional advice or in connection with any offer or sale of securities. Fidelis makes no representation that transactions, products or services discussed on the website are available or appropriate for sale or use in any jurisdictions or by any investor. Persons who access the website do so at their own initiative and are responsible for compliance with local laws or regulations. While Fidelis uses reasonable efforts to obtain information from reliable sources, Fidelis makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy, reliability or completeness of any information or document on the website obtained from outside sources. Unsourced statements should be understood to reflect the subjective beliefs, opinions, expectations or understandings of Fidelis, which may be inaccurate. This website contains forward-looking statements, which reflect Fidelis’ views with respect to, among other things, Fidelis’ operations and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties and speak only as of the date on which they are made. There are many factors that could cause actual outcomes or results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of words such as “outlook,” “indicator,” “believe,” “expect,” “potential,” “continue,” “may,” “should,” “seek,” “approximately,” “predict,” “anticipate,” “optimistic,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “aim,” “will” or the negative version of these words or similar expressions. Fidelis undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any information on the website, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Opinions and any other information on the website are subject to change without notice. Past performance is not indicative of future results; no representation is made that any investment will or is likely to achieve profits or losses similar to those achieved in the past, or that significant losses will be avoided. Fidelis is a newly-formed entities with no operating history. Certain information relating to prior experience contained on this website is for illustrative purposes only to demonstrate the management, fundraising, and sourcing activity of certain personnel while employed at other firms. In certain cases, other investment professionals or firms had substantial involvement in and/or decision-making authority over, and made substantial contributions to the making and management of, certain of such investments, and certain of such individuals and firms will not be involved in Fidelis or the making and management of its investments. The RACER framework was developed by Fidelis’ Co-Founders (the “Co-Founders”) to provide objective ESG factors to be applied in connection with Fidelis’ investments. The RACER framework is composed of factors that the Co-Founders believe to be relevant to ESG value creation based on their collective experience in infrastructure investing. Neither this framework nor any investment has been assessed or approved by any independent ESG-focused organization or body, and there is no guarantee that the RACER framework will be successful. This website has not been filed with or reviewed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or any U.S. or non-U.S. governmental or self-regulatory authority. Investments in securities involve numerous risks, including but not limited to market, currency, economic, regulatory, tax, political, business and other risks. There can be no guarantee that an investment in securities will be profitable, or that investors in securities will not lose some or all of their investment. Legal and Privacy Notices Legal requirements in various countries and jurisdictions may restrict the types of information that can be accessed on the internet or how it may be used. Persons who view or obtain information from this website should inform themselves of and observe any such restrictions in the jurisdiction in which they access this website. All visitors to this website should refer to our Website Privacy Policy .