Amazon acquires 140 acres of land in Manassas, Virginia - DCD Home News Cloud & Hyperscale Amazon acquires 140 acres of land in Manassas, Virginia AWS continues expansion in Prince William County January 25, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Amazon has acquired more land in Virginia’s Prince William County. Citing county property records, BizJournal reports Amazon Data Services Inc., recently paid $152 million to acquire roughly 140 acres across four parcels in Manassas. – Google Maps The parcels, clustered into two pairs, fall within Prince William County’s Data Center Opportunity Zone Overlay District, which grants data center zoning. One pair of parcels comprises around 27 acres at 7151 and 7350 Century Park Drive, while the other pair comprises two lots totaling 113 acres at 8401 and 8501 Vulcan Lane. The Century Park parcels were sold by Dreyfuss Management, while an affiliate of Vulcan Materials Co. sold the Vulcan Lane parcels. BJ reports two rezoning applications, one under review and the other suspended, for lots right next to the Vulcan Lane parcels are also seeking data centers. Documents for both name Amazon Data Services as the contractor purchaser or lessee and in one case the contract seller is the same Vulcan Materials Co. affiliate from which Amazon acquired property. The companies declined to comment to BJ. Update : AWS told DCD : “We are constantly evaluating new locations based on customer demand. We recently purchased land in Prince William County and are performing due diligence in exploring possible data center locations.” Microsoft is developing a two-building campus nearby to Century Park Drive on Balls Ford Road. Already a major data center presence in Virginia's Loudoun County, Amazon has a growing number of data center projects and landholdings in and around Manassas. The company recently acquired around 20 acres of government-owned land at 10453 Wakeman Drive. Digital Realty has a three-building campus nearby on the other side of the Prince William Parkway – which Greenpeace has suggested is leased to AWS – and is redeveloping a former brickyard nearby for a 185,000 sq ft single-story data center. AWS is also planning a three-building campus a few miles north of Wakeman Drive on the corner of Dean Drive/Nokesville Road, just south of the Wellington Road and Route 28 intersection. The company is also planning a large campus further north of that on 5945 Wellington Road and another east on an 80-acre site between Ashton Avenue and Sudley Road. Subscribe to our daily newsletters Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter series. More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 18 Feb 2026 JLL: Texas to become world’s largest data center market by 2030 Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 13 Feb 2026 Everest International Partners to acquire US Southwest tower assets from ATN International for $297m Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Virginia Prince William County Vulcan Materials Amazon AWS Amazon Web Services Manassas Amazon Data Services 7151 Century Park Drive Dreyfuss Management 8501 Vulcan Lane 7350 Century Park Drive 8401 Vulcan Lane Comments