Greene County planners OK early work on proposed data center site - Observer-Reporter close Greene County planners OK early work on proposed data center site Dec 19, 2025 By Garrett Neese 6 min read Residents listen to public comments on a proposed data center site during the Greene County Planning Commission meeting Wednesday night. The first phase of work for a proposed data center complex was approved Wednesday night at a lengthy Greene County Planning Commission meeting that generated nearly an hour-and-a-half of public comment. The commission voted 8-1 to allow land development for Project Hummingbird, which is building a power island on the former site of the Robena Mine in Monongahela Township with the goal of attracting a hyperscale data center. Phase 1 covers grading and reclamation of the site to prepare for future uses, including the installation of two natural gas turbines totaling 910 megawatts, as well as the construction of a plant to treat the water that will be used for cooling. The first phase also covers domestic water and sewer lines for the plant and data center. Plans call for 309 acres to be disturbed in the initial phase of what will eventually be a 1,400-acre complex along the Monongahela River. “Greene County has a long history in power generation and power production,” said Dave Spigelmyer, head of community and government relations for IEP, the Pittsburgh-based company that will supply power for the site. “You invested in developing your natural gas resources, and today, that decision to invest in your natural gas resources is going to be utilized to grow jobs right here in Greene County. It will strengthen your tax base and can turn a brownfield into an economic engine for this region.” The plan will use erosion and sediment control measures and sediment basin design. Spigelmyer said those plans have yet to get final approval. Planning commission member Brian Sokol said he worried approving the plan without the other permits in place was “putting the cart before the horse.” Mary Bokat cast the lone vote against approval. She asked if the active mining reclamation permit meant the commission’s approval was unnecessary. IEP civil engineer and design manager Josh Schroeder said the permit covered reclamation; other items such as grading required approval. After the meeting, Sokol said his yes vote was a reflection of the limited scope of Wednesday’s measure. The commission’s solicitor informed members that since it met the requirements of the subdivision and land development ordinance, the commission could either vote to approve it or to table it. “If it meets the requirements of the SALDO, you’ve got to vote with the SALDO, and at this point in time, for that purpose, without building any homes or without building any infrastructure, they meet the requirement as of today,” Sokol said. “Will they for Phase 2? I don’t know. We’ll see.” At Wednesday’s meeting, Spigelmyer and Schroeder outlined the other parts of the project, which will require separate approvals. IEP hopes to have permitting in place by early 2026. Construction of the data center and power island is targeted to begin in 2026, with the data center finished by 2028. In the same year, turbines are expected to be delivered in the first and third quarters, going into operation in 2029. Spigelmyer said IEP would also petition the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and PJM, which manages the power grid in the region, to place power onto the grid when not at full demand. What drew most of the 250-plus people in attendance was Phase 4, which calls for construction of the data center buildings and the buildout of the core campus. Most, though not all, speakers opposed the plan. Some, though open to the idea of the Robena Mine site being put to a productive use, were wary that the data center project was the answer. Several speakers worried about the potential for environmental contamination, through the potential for hazardous chemicals being evaporated in the water used for cooling. IEP representatives referred some questions to Essential Utilities, which is handling the water treatment plan. The mismatch between the narrow focus of Wednesday’s meeting and the expertise needed to answer all questions about the broader project left some residents frustrated. Greene County resident Veronica Fike asked IEP to commit to a meeting with the other contractors involved, as well as legislators and the regulatory agencies responsible for approving permits. “If it would have been profitable to clean the site up without a guaranteed end use, Consol would have done it a decade ago, and it hasn’t happened,” she said. “And so we’re trying to trust you all to come in and clean something up and do betterment in our community, and we’re not getting a clear picture.” A recurring suggestion was a community agreement, which would bind IEP and the data center to provide monetary benefits or other contributions to the county. “We’ve committed to work closely with the local and state officials that are responsible for this site, and you have our commitment to do that,” Spigelmyer said. “If they want to have a discussion over a long-term plan, we’re happy to have that conversation.” Others brought up practical concerns that hadn’t yet come up in IEP’s plans, such as the lack of a nearby ambulance service. Some residents worried the project would extract value from the community while providing minimal opportunities in return. Spigelmyer cited estimates that placed the number of jobs created at 1,500 over the next six years. The number of power plant employees permanently employed there over the life of the data center would be smaller, about 40 to 50, he said. “At least when the coal mine was there, it produced something,” said Tom Barton, a resident of Alicia, a community adjacent to the proposed site. “It gave something back to the community … thousands of jobs, great jobs. But this just takes water, just takes. The only thing that profits are these people.” Spigelmyer said the company was committed to working with the Greene County Career & Technical Center to recruit students for work at the site. After the meeting, Spigelmyer said IEP is willing to organize a meeting along with Essential Utilities, which is managing the water plant, for the residents living closest to the power plant to hear their concerns. Before the vote, planning commission member Jim Goroncy stressed the importance of working with those most affected. “We’ve heard tonight a lot of concerns from the people that live locally,” he said. “So we just are asking that you be good neighbors, good corporate neighbors, and listen to the people, listen to their concerns.” CUSTOMER LOGIN If you have an account and are registered for online access, sign in with your email address and password below. Login NEW CUSTOMERS/UNREGISTERED ACCOUNTS Never been a subscriber and want to subscribe, click the Subscribe button below. Subscribe Starting at $3.75 / week. Subscribe Today