AWS seeks permit for another data center campus in Louisa County, Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel AWS seeks permit for another data center campus in Louisa County, Virginia Desper Creek Technology Campus will also be in the Technology Overlay District September 18, 2025 By Georgia Butler Have your say Amazon Web Services (AWS) has filed for another data center campus in Louisa County, Virginia. A Joint Permit Application to the US Army Corps of Engineers and the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality was filed last month by Amazon Data Services for a new data center campus in the county. – US Army Corps of Engineers Dubbed the "Desper Creek Technology Campus," it will be located on land south of Jefferson Highway (Route 33), east of Mt. Airy Road, and west of Shannon Hill Road and will fall under Louisa County's Technology Overlay District (TOD). According to the application, the project seeks to "provide the maximum data center capacity within Louisa County’s Technology Overlay District to feasibly meet the needs of existing and expanding customer demand for cloud-based computing, and meet Amazon Data Service’s need to reach their commitments to the Commonwealth of Virginia for economic development." Based on a parcel map, the campus will sit on around 140.2 acres of land, and drawings suggest that eight data centers could be developed, as well as a substation. AWS is already developing two data center campuses in the Louisa County Technology Overlay District. The company revealed plans for two campuses, promising a total investment of $11 billion by 2040, in August 2023 . The first campus is a 153-acre campus in Louisa County, filed for in September 2023 . The Lake Anna Tech Campus, located east of the intersection of Haley Drive and Kentucky Road, would feature up to seven data center buildings totaling 1.7 million sq ft (157,935 sqm) as well as two substations. The other was filed for in November 2024 and will span around 374 acres of land and house ten 382,000 sq ft (35,490 sqm) data center buildings. This latest proposal shortly follows AWS' proposal for a third campus in the county in June 2025 that would house up to 7.2 million sq ft (668,901 sqm) of data center space on 1,370 acres of land. At the end of July, these plans were withdrawn following feedback from the community. The new application is likely a replacement for that project. Amazon has a significant presence in Northern Virginia and continues to expand in the area. In addition to facilities in Loudoun and Fairfax Counties, as well as Prince William , the company is making moves to establish data centers in Fauquier , Culpeper , King George , Spotsylvania , and Caroline Counties. In February 2025 , DCD exclusively revealed that AWS was aiming to develop a data center in each county between Northern Virginia and the city of Richmond. More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 21 Feb 2026 115-acre data center could come to Osawatomie, Kansas, says local government Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 21 Apr 2026 Plans to build 1,300-acre data center in Fort Meade, Florida, gets go-ahead from officials Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags AWS Amazon Web Services Desper Creek Technology Campus Louisa County Virginia Comments