Archbald and Blakely to vote on data center zoning | wnep.com Breaking News More ( ) » Lackawanna County Residents rally against data center zoning proposals in Lackawanna County communities Borough councils in Archbald and Blakely plan votes on zoning changes for data centers later this month To stream WNEP on your phone, you need the WNEP app. Download the WNEP app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video LACKAWANNA COUNTY, Pa. — Borough councils in Archbald and Blakely are set to take separate data center-related votes amending their zoning ordinances this month. The people living in those communities hope to make their voices heard. Scores of people in Lackawanna County's Midvalley signed petitions Sunday to protest the development of data centers, fearing the potential noise pollution, their health and drags on local resources and property values. In Archbald, council will vote Sept. 29 to potentially create four data center zoning districts on land currently zoned in a mix of industrial, commercial and residential areas. The meeting will be held at 6 p.m. in the basement of Saint Thomas Aquinas Church, 429 Church St. "So I'm just concerned that when our zoning regulations were written, that they weren't written for what actually data centers are now," said Kayleigh Cornell, co-founder of the Archbald Neighborhood Association. The neighborhood association hopes the borough will zone just one district for data centers. Four is too much, they believe. "Our goal now is to limit the number and also to put restrictions on them so that they are the best neighbors and least harmful to our area," Archbald Neighborhood Association Co-Founder Sarah Gabriel said. Association members pointed to an ordinance recently passed by Jessup as a model for Archbald. The ordinance in Jessup limits the facilities to industrial zones, which is narrowed in Jessup to areas above the Casey Highway. "If we had to have one, ideally it would be away from residential areas, away from schools, away from parks," she added. "Probably in an area that's already zoned for industrial use." A short drive away in Blakely, residents of the borough worry about a data center development between the Scranton-Carbondale Highway and Keystone Avenue. Melinda Harhut says that will be a few hundred feet away from her backyard. "Our area is already dealing with what's left of the coal mining era," Harhut said. "We're also dealing with the landfill and the smells that come from it. So are you gonna dump something else on the community? How much can this community handle?" She and a group of her neighbors want council to reject a request for zoning change made by businessman Al Patel that would allow for the center's development. The meeting in Blakely is scheduled for 6 p.m. Sept. 16 at Sacred Heart of Jesus Church. "We hope that anybody that can and is able to come to this meeting if they're against it and have a voice... have the community have a voice," she said. "We're the only ones that can help to prevent this." Related Articles Luzerne County hopes PPL will consider alternatives to new high-voltage lines in county's south. The utility has no plans to change course State senate bill focuses on data centers Roundtable discussion on proposed data centers in Pennsylvania Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out