Direct LTx | Facility Information 0 Direct LTx Technology Highlights. Direct LTx was established in 2006 as a colocation facility providing 24x7x365 data center services to enterprise, managed service, and telecom provider clients. We offer a host of flexible and configurable solutions from cabinet to cage to dedicated space. We provide disaster recovery and business continuity services and suites on site. We offer our clients clean, reliable power; reliable, scalable network connections; redundant heating, cooling, and fire detection systems. All services are backed by a commitment to superior customer service. With the highly-redundant infrastructure in place our clients can expect world-class availability for their mission critical systems. Ideal location for production or backup computing sites Easily accessible via private airport, major highways, public transportation Within 100 miles of major Mid-Atlantic metropolitan areas but in separate power grids, geologic, and climate zones Outside FEMA 500-year flood plain and mapped seismic hazard areas Robust & redundant power and cooling systems 6 Megawatts of commercial power divided into 3 power feeds 7 Megawatts UPS battery backup total capacity 7.5 Megawatts diesel generation total capacity Over 1,000 Tons of chilled water capacity Diverse cooling mix with air-cooled, chilled water, and hybrid water/air CRAC units Robust & redundant network infrastructure Two communications rooms, allowing for carrier diversity & network redundancy Cloud on-ramp available supporting public, private, and hybrid cloud solutions 12 Telecom network providers, many with multiple physical routes onto the property. Space for all your mission-critical business needs 110,000 sq. ft. of raised floor data center space (most located below ground level) Accessible via private airport, major highways, public transportation Ample parking, on-site cafeteria, loading docks, and warehouse/staging space Conference rooms and office space available for temporary or full-time use Highest levels of security 24/7/365 on-site security Controlled access: smart card, biometrics, and other access options Extensive CCTV system with over 76 camera locations Industry standard certifications Including SSAE-16 SOC 2 certification and compliance with PCI, HIPAA, and other standards