Microsoft begins acquiring land in North Carolina for data centers - DCD Home News Cloud & Hyperscale Microsoft begins acquiring land in North Carolina for data centers Company reportedly acquired close to 450 acres for just $18.6 million January 04, 2023 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Microsoft has begun acquiring hundreds of acres of land in North Carolina as part of a recently announced data center project there. In November, Microsoft announced plans to invest at least $1 billion toward building four data centers in Catawba County , North Carolina. – Sebastian Moss/DatacenterDynamics BizJournal reports, citing deeds filed with Catawba County, Microsoft has acquired more than 440 acres in the County since November. The land, which includes parcels throughout the county at the announced sites of Microsoft's operations, was purchased for a total of nearly $18.6 million. BJ notes, however, that the company still has several hundred acres left to acquire, based on previously announced acreages at its target sites. County real estate records show Microsoft has acquired an approximately 160-acre site off Hickory Lincolnton Highway, and west of Highway 321, for nearly $6.5 million. The company also bought a nearly 16-acre site off Tate Boulevard for $836,000, real estate records show. Those were the announced sites of Projects Pine and Star, which called for a $365 million investment as part of Microsoft's overall plans in the county. Microsoft paid nearly $7.5 million for 157 acres to the north of Conover along N.C. Highway 16. The land appears to be part of the project site for Project Agate, which was announced as a $332 million investment at a 219-acre site along N.C. Highway 16 near Conover. Microsoft purchased approximately 113 acres at West Maiden and Zeb Haynes roads in Maiden for $3.7 million. The land is a portion of the site for Project Yoga, which was announced as a $332 million investment at a 292-acre site at the same location. BJ notes it is unclear when the company intends to close on the remainder of the land near Conover and in Maiden, which would include over 240 more acres if the announced acreages for the project are still accurate. Microsoft declined to comment to the publication. Microsoft has previously said its investments in the area will be built out over a decade, so may hold off buying the rest of the land until it is ready to expand further. Construction timelines haven't been shared. Meanwhile, Apple has a data center in Maiden , opening the facility in 2009. The company has invested more than $3 billion in the County during this period. Get a monthly roundup of Hyperscale news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter series. Tags North Carolina Maiden Hickory Project Dogwood Microsoft Conover Catawba County Comments