Oasis Digital Properties gets greenlight for 1.2GW data center in King George County, Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Oasis Digital Properties gets greenlight for 1.2GW data center in King George County, Virginia Company to build campus near Fredericksburg August 25, 2025 By Georgia Butler Have your say Oasis Digital Properties has had a data center campus approved by Virginia's King George County Board of Supervisors. The campus will be located in Dahlgren, near Fredericksburg. – Dahlgren West As reported by the Washington Business Journal , the campus will span 485 acres on the north side of James Madison Parkway. Oasis is planning to build 10 data center buildings on the site for a total square footage of 6.8 million (631,740 sqm). It is expected to have an IT capacity of 1.2GW. According to the company, construction will bring around 1,500 jobs to the area, and between 50 and 60 full-time jobs per building once operational. Annual tax generation for the county will fall between $100 million and $120 million. Oasis told WBJ that the site was selected because it falls outside of Northern Virginia. Ross Likenhous, co-founder of Oasis, said: “It’s a tangible example of data centers being lured outside of Northern Virginia because of the shifting political winds and the shrinking appetite for additional data centers in Northern Virginia.” In 2024, a data center campus was proposed for a 500-acre parcel also off James Madison Parkway. That application was for 9 million sq ft (836,130 sqm) across 10 to 15 buildings, and was submitted by Potomac Development Group. The group still lists the Dahlgren project on its website . Nick Over, previously a principal at Potamac Development Group, is partner and co-founder of Oasis. Over and Likenhous launched Oasis Digital based on the premise that data center development in Northern Virginia was being "choked off." The company has other projects underway in Russell County, Wise County, and Greensville County in Virginia. As the world's largest data center market, Northern Virginia has seen significant debate over continued development. Earlier this month, the long-proposed Digital Gateway project in Prince William County saw its zoning authorization revoked after a lawsuit by local residents. Despite critics of data centers in the region, the facilities bring a lot of money to local governments through taxes. Loudoun County, one of the most data center-populated counties in Northern Virginia, expects to bring in $795 million in revenues from taxes on data center computer equipment alone in 2026. Amazon is seeking to develop a data center campus in King George County. The project was rejected, but in May, Amazon filed a petition to review the decision . More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 20 Jan 2026 Switch buys 176 acres at Apex Industrial Park, Las Vegas Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 18 Feb 2026 Man arrested at meeting about proposed data center in Claremore, Oklahoma Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Dahlgren Dahlgren West King George County Oasis Digital Properties Virginia Comments