Brightspeed data center up for sale-leaseback in Arkansas - DCD Home News The Investment & Markets Channel Brightspeed data center up for sale-leaseback in Arkansas Former CenturyLink facility available for $4.5 million April 09, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A telecoms data center in Arkansas is available in a sale-leaseback deal .. Via LoopNet , Cushman & Wakefield and Sage Partners are offering 214 S Denver Avenue in Pope County’s Russellville for sale. Brightspeed data center up for sale in Russellville, Arkansas – Google Maps The 44,650 sq ft (4,150 sqm) facility is available for $4.5 million. Built in 2000, the two-story facility is available with a 20-year, 100 percent-lease, with “at least 20 years” worth of renewable options thereafter. The property would generate around $360,000 in rent annually. The tenant is not named, but images of the building suggest the site was previously owned by CenturyLink. Though CenturyLink rebranded to Lumen, the company sold its ILEC business in 20 states – including Arkansas – to Apollo Global Management in 2021, which rebranded the business to Brightspeed. Brightspeed's site notes it has taken over CenturyLink's offerings in Russellville. Brightspeed has been looking to sell off a number of its data center sites in leaseback deals across the US. Last year, a Brightspeed data center in Charlottesville, Virginia, was put up for sale in a sale-leaseback deal. In January of this year, two other Brightspeed facilities were up for sale-leaseback in Missouri , following the sale of a third Missouri facility last year. The following month, six more Brightspeed facilities across Ohio came to market, again on a leaseback basis. An ILEC is a local telephone company (or successor company) that held a regional monopoly on landline services before the market was opened to competitive local exchange carriers. The former CenturyLink business can trace its roots back to the Oak Ridge Telephone Company, founded in 1930, as well as US West and Qwest. More in Investment / M&A / Financing North America data center report: Year-end 2025 16 Feb 2026 Telkom Indonesia revisits NeutraDC sale plans - report Episode DCD>Inside APAC More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 23 Feb 2026 US utility PPL sees data center pipeline swell by 23 percent to 25.2GW Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 214 S Denver Avenue Arkansas Brightspeed CenturyLink Cushman & Wakefield Pope County Russellville Sage Partners Sale leaseback sale-leasebacks Comments