$1.7bn data center could be built in Lebanon County, Pennsylvania - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel $1.7bn data center could be built in Lebanon County, Pennsylvania But nothing formal has been submitted April 20, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say A data center worth $1.7 billion could be built in South Annville Township, situated in southeastern Lebanon County, Pennsylvania. In a public presentation to Lebanon County Commissioners on Wednesday, property developer Inch & Company said that it was considering applying for permission to build five data centers totaling around 640,000 sq ft (59,460 sqm) across 100 acres of land near Mt. Pleasant Road. – Google Maps Inch said that the campus would be constructed in three phases, with one phase completed by the end of each year from 2027 to 2029. The company also estimates that the data center will offer more than $17 million in annual tax revenue split between Lebanon County, the Annville-Cleona School District, and South Annville Township. In a handout given to residents, Inch said that residents of South Annville and ratepayers in the PJM region “are already experiencing electric rate impacts from data center growth across the 13-state territory,” and that residents will face “the same regional rate pressures” irrespective of where a given data center is built. “If the data center is built elsewhere, South Annville receives no offsetting tax benefit while still experiencing the regional rate impact,” the handout continues. No formal application for the project has been submitted yet. Most of Pennsylvania’s data centers are located in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. Lebanon County does not seem to have any facilities at the moment, according to Data Center Map . More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 09 Jan 2026 Dominion sues US gov't over offshore wind halt, citing data center power risks Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 07 Jan 2026 Nigerian Edge data center operator Fringe launches in Lagos Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities Tags Inch and Company Lebanon County Pennsylvania South Annville Township Comments