Iron Mountain starts work on data center campus near Richmond, Virginia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Iron Mountain starts work on data center campus near Richmond, Virginia New campus from colo firm to offer 200MW of capacity at full build out May 21, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say Iron Mountain has begun construction on a data center campus near Richmond, Virginia. When completed, the campus will be 66 acres, offering more than 200MW of capacity. More than one million sq ft (93,000 sqm) of data center space will be available. Visualization of the facility – Iron Mountain Inc. The first part of the facility, RCH-1, will be 360,000 sq ft (34,000 sqm), with 48MW of capacity at full buildout. 18MW of capacity will be available by 2027, with the remaining 30MW available upon completion, estimated for 2030. The campus will be east of Richmond in White Oak Technology Park, which is also home to Meta and QTS . Richmond has a growing data center market, but it is smaller than its counterpart in Northern Virginia, which has the highest concentration of data centers in the world. Iron Mountain acquired the land in November 2024 and announced work had started on RCH-1 this week. The mushroom-farm turned storage company slash colocation data center operator has another campus in the state. Located across 142-acres of land in Manassas, Northern Virginia, it operates five centers with a view to develop four more. At full build-out, it will offer 280MW of capacity. The company recently made a foray into the MENA (Middle East and North Africa) market, taking a minority stake in MENA Digital Hub, Qatari telco Ooredoo’s data subsidiary. In April, it took ownership of Indian data center operator WebWerks and appointed Gary Aitkenhead, former SVP of Equinix’s EMEA operations, as the company’s EVP and GM of data centers. These moves come off the back of Iron Mountain’s FY 2024 results, which saw its data center division report $620m in revenue, up 25 percent year-on-year. Iron Mountain operates in 61 countries, offering a wide variety of services including asset lifecycle management, record and information management, and warehousing and logistics. It manages more than 25 data centers worldwide, with a presence in America, Singapore, India, the Netherlands, Germany, the UK, and Spain. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 25 Feb 2026 Sponsored Nostrum Group accelerates critical data center infrastructure expansion with the appointment of industry leader Les Dunkley as independent board member Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 20 Feb 2026 Generac acquires switchgear maker Enercon Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Iron Mountain Northern Virginia RCH-1 Richmond Virginia White Oak Technology Park Comments