$3 billion AI data center coming to the Upstate Skip to content NOWCAST WYFF News 4 at 11 Watch on Demand Press enter to search Type to Search Search location by ZIP code ZIP Advertisement $3 billion AI data center planned for Spartanburg County $3 billion AI data center planned for Spartanburg County FEBRUARY 8TH AT 6:30 P.M. WHEN A GAME THAT SHOULD BE A $3 BILLION AI DATA CENTER IS PLANNED FOR SPARTANBURG COUNTY, CREATING 50 FULL TIME POSITIONS. EXCLUSIVE SKY4 VIDEO NOW OVER THE SITE OF THE TIGER RIVER INDUSTRIAL PARK NORTH, IT’S PART OF TIGER DC’S PLAN NAMED PROJECT SPARROW. PHASE ONE CONSTRUCTION IS SET TO BEGIN THIS YEAR, WITH OPERATIONS ANTICIPATED IN 2027. THIS IS THE COMPANY’S SECOND INVESTMENT IN SPARTANBURG COUNTY. TIGER Updated: 11:31 PM EST Jan 28, 2026 Editorial Standards ⓘ Advertisement $3 billion AI data center planned for Spartanburg County Updated: 11:31 PM EST Jan 28, 2026 Editorial Standards ⓘ Construction will soon begin on a $3 billion AI data center in Spartanburg County, with operations anticipated in 2027.On Wednesday, TigerDC announced "Project Spero," a next-generation, AI-focused high-performance computing data center planned for the Tyger River Industrial Park-North. This marks the company's second major investment in Spartanburg County, as TigerDC has been operating a Bitcoin mining facility there since 2022.The project is expected to generate millions in annual county property tax revenue.Construction is set to begin this year, with operations anticipated in 2027.The project is expected to support approximately 50 full-time positions focused on high-skilled technical and operational roles. The company said Project Spero will be served by an existing industrial utility infrastructure, separate from residential systems.“Project Spero will not cause an increase in Lockhart’s customer rates,” said a representative of Lockhart Power. “Furthermore, the facility is being served through existing industrial electrical infrastructure, plus enhancements to that infrastructure that are being funded entirely by the Project, resulting in a more robust electrical grid.”In addition, TigerDC plans to self-generate a portion of its power on site using natural gas as part of a reliability strategy. On-site generation will be fully permitted and regulated and is intended to reduce reliance on the electric grid while enhancing operational resilience.Water usage at the facility is expected to be limited, with a practical impact comparable to a light commercial operation, such as a large home improvement store. The design relies on air-cooled and closed-loop cooling systems, eliminating the need for expanded water infrastructure and ensuring no disruption to existing customers. SPARTANBURG COUNTY, S.C. — Construction will soon begin on a $3 billion AI data center in Spartanburg County, with operations anticipated in 2027. On Wednesday, TigerDC announced "Project Spero," a next-generation, AI-focused high-performance computing data center planned for the Tyger River Industrial Park-North. Advertisement This marks the company's second major investment in Spartanburg County, as TigerDC has been operating a Bitcoin mining facility there since 2022. The project is expected to generate millions in annual county property tax revenue. Construction is set to begin this year, with operations anticipated in 2027. The project is expected to support approximately 50 full-time positions focused on high-skilled technical and operational roles. Data center growth in South Carolina prompts regulations statewide The company said Project Spero will be served by an existing industrial utility infrastructure, separate from residential systems. “Project Spero will not cause an increase in Lockhart’s customer rates,” said a representative of Lockhart Power. “Furthermore, the facility is being served through existing industrial electrical infrastructure, plus enhancements to that infrastructure that are being funded entirely by the Project, resulting in a more robust electrical grid.” In addition, TigerDC plans to self-generate a portion of its power on site using natural gas as part of a reliability strategy. On-site generation will be fully permitted and regulated and is intended to reduce reliance on the electric grid while enhancing operational resilience. Water usage at the facility is expected to be limited, with a practical impact comparable to a light commercial operation, such as a large home improvement store. The design relies on air-cooled and closed-loop cooling systems, eliminating the need for expanded water infrastructure and ensuring no disruption to existing customers. Weather Information Latest Forecast ° F FEELS LIKE No weather data available HOURLY DAILY RADAR TRAFFIC Sponsored by Make WYFF 4 a preferred source on Google Add Preferred Source Share Copy Link Copy {copyShortcut} to copy Top Picks 31 sloths imported from South America die in Florida warehouse ahead of ‘Sloth World’ opening What's all the buzz about? The White House honey program has a new beehive Miss toys in your cereal box? They’re making a comeback A Good Housekeeping writer tried this new cooling gadget. Here's how it performed Loading more articles...