APR Energy obtains approval for 800-acre natural gas powered data center in Pampa, Texas - DCD Home News The Mission Critical Power Channel APR Energy obtains approval for 800-acre natural gas powered data center in Pampa, Texas Expected to have an initial capacity of 400MW June 16, 2025 By Zachary Skidmore Have your say APR Energy has obtained approval from state regulators to move forward with the development of an 800-acre data center in Pampa, Texas. – APR Energy The Pampa Chamber of Commerce and the Pampa Economic Development Corporation approved the project last Tuesday (July 10). The data center is expected to have an initial capacity of 400MW and will be powered by on-site natural gas turbines. The initial power will be provided through modular gas units, with APR seeking to deploy a 2GW permanent natural gas plant onsite to allow the project to scale. APR produces several mobile gas turbine solutions, with power ratings of between 25 to 265MW per unit, and can be scaled to meet capacity requirements ranging from 15 to 500MW. The turbines are also dual fuel, which can be powered on diesel, natural gas, LNG, LPG, naphtha, and more. APR has said that the location was chosen due to its access to water, fiber connectivity, and natural gas resources. The company also has the right of first refusal on an adjacent plot of land spanning 500 acres. The first phase of the project's development is slated for early 2026. The Pampa Chamber of Commerce said in a published statement that the development, “brings with it the promise of new jobs, high-tech infrastructure, and powerful momentum for local economic growth. It’s not just a win for Pampa, it’s a bold leap into the future for our entire region.” According to the company, the data center is expected to consume up to 1.5 million gallons of water per day. The vast water usage has led to concerns that it could impact water security across the state. Estimations in the current Texas State Water Plan project suggest that new data center developments could lead to a nine million acre-feet shortfall in water within the next decade. APR has signed several power agreements within the data center market over recent years; however, the Pampa data center development seems to be the company's first as a primary developer. It is currently seeking data center developers, hyperscalers, and AI partners to partner on the development of the facility. In February, the firm partnered with Duos Technologies to deploy four mobile gas turbines with a combined capacity of 100MW for a major unnamed US hyperscaler. The deployment was part of a portfolio of mobile gas turbines owned by funds managed by affiliates of Fortress Investment Group. More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 12 Mar 2026 Microsoft in talks for the Crusoe Abilene capacity OpenAI's Stargate skipped - report Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Rack Level Inside the AI rack: power, fabric, and fiber 17 Feb 2026 SELC to sue xAI over 'unpermitted gas turbine' use at Memphis data center Episode Rethinking fire protection for high-density facilities Tags APR Energy Pampa Texas natural gas Comments