Collaboration secures acreage to host data center in Midland County Midland Reporter Telegram Logo Hearst Newspapers Logo Skip to main content Business Collaboration secures acreage to host data center in Midland County By Mella McEwen , Oil Editor Sep 15, 2025 A rendering of a 1 gigawatt data center. FO Permian Partners and HiVolt Energy are collaborating on preparing Midland County acreage to host data centers. Courtesy FO Permian A collaboration is preparing the way for development of data centers in Midland County. FO Permian Partners and HiVolt Energy have secured a 320-acre parcel 30 minutes southeast of downtown Midland for immediate development, according to Davis Farish, co-founder and partner in FO Permian. Advertisement Article continues below this ad “We have 320 acres under option with a prominent landowner, 30 minutes from downtown Midland. So now the real work begins, and we still have a steep hill to climb to attract a premier data center builder to West Texas, but we’ve built a solid foundation at base camp and now have the pieces in place to make it happen,” he said. The first phase has guaranteed initial delivery of 150 megawatts of behind-the-meter natural gas, or about what the entire city of Midland consumes during its lowest-demand hours in the winter. Delivery could be as soon as next year. There is expansion potential to multiple gigawatts. The project is supported by more than 5 gigawatts of dedicated natural gas supply, prime development land, abundant water and diverse fiber routes, enabling large-scale deployments independent of the U.S. electrical grid. “We have seen projects across the Permian Basin with oil companies, and we’ve been working toward data centers for some time,” said Josh Evans, HiVolt president and chief executive officer. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Andy Deck, chief commercial officer at HiVolt, said that, with both companies headquartered in Midland, he liked that Farish and co-founder Jose Ortega were natives of the Permian Basin. “A lot of times, big projects like this, people take a lot of value out of the Permian Basin. We liked the ability to keep value in the Permian Basin,” he said. This initial site is part of a contiguous 3,200-acre tract, providing a clear path for hyperscale or co-location growth. With more than 5 gigawatts of natural gas availability and power infrastructure operated by HiVolt Energy, an independent power producer with seasoned local experience in developing and operating isolated microgrids, the platform can scale generation capacity to match virtually any data center build-out. Phase 1 will use a platform of custom reciprocating engines supported by a redundant battery system designed to meet load-response requirements and reliability standards. Evans said the company does not expect any issues obtaining needed equipment. Advertisement Article continues below this ad “We have strategic relationships with our suppliers,” he said. “We have a line of sight on what we will need.” The Permian Basin has a rare opportunity to establish itself as a premier location for the most significant infrastructure build-out in modern history — a new industrial revolution powered by computation factories, Farish said. The data center alone will bring nearly $4.5 billion of construction and hardware investment, creating opportunities for local jobs and businesses. And the demand for AI is real: U.S. data center electricity consumption is projected to grow from 44 gigawatts today to 156 gigawatts by 2030, Farish noted. “But what really sets the Permian apart is our people. The Permian Basin offers abundant land, low-cost natural gas, and extensive infrastructure. But it’s the grit, ingenuity, and wildcat spirit of West Texans that make this vision possible. FO Permian Partners and HiVolt are proud to stand as the first 100% local endeavor, driven by West Texas business, civic and investment leaders working together to charge ahead,” Farish said. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Sep 15, 2025 Mella McEwen Oil Editor Mella McEwen is the oil editor for the Midland Reporter-Telegram. Most Popular 1 . Stonegate Fellowship abuse case moves toward May trial 2 . Midland man to head Pecos River Commission 3 . 2 homes on Harvard Avenue planned to be demolished, rebuilt 4 . $41 million dollar Lotto Texas ticket sold 5 . Midland Christian names valedictorian, salutatorian Midland Reporter Telegram Logo Want more MRT? Make us a Preferred Source on Google to see more of us when you search. Add Preferred Source More from MRT High School Moon shuts door as Midland High clinches share of district title Mitchell Moon knew he had the backing of his teammates when he entered a one-run game and Odessa... High School HS baseball/softball roundup: Rebels clinch playoff spot The Legacy baseball team swept Odessa High in a three-game District 2-6A baseball series to clinch... High School Midland High walks-off Montwood to take Game 1 No. 4-ranked Midland High was foreign to playing tight contests or games when trailing during... Sports Brazzell II drafted by the Panthers in the third round Chris Brazzell II will be catching targets soon from former Heisman Trophy winner Bryce Young. Chaps No. 2 Midland College splits doubleheader at NMMI The No. 2-ranked Midland College baseball team split a competitive doubleheader at New Mexico... High School Pacheco homers twice as Odessa College sweeps Midland College The No. 12-ranked Odessa College softball team won two critical games against rival Midland College... High School Andrews football coach Tom Harvey announces retirement Andrews head football coach Tom Harvey has decided to retire after four years of leading the... News Education Foundation honors top seniors Top-ranked graduates from several Midland schools received scholarship awards during the annual... Most Popular 1 . Stonegate Fellowship abuse case moves toward May trial 2 . Midland man to head Pecos River Commission 3 . 2 homes on Harvard Avenue planned to be demolished, rebuilt 4 . $41 million dollar Lotto Texas ticket sold 5 . Midland Christian names valedictorian, salutatorian More News City Council to weigh Hogan Park, infrastructure, cybersecurity Area track and field leaderboard for the 2026 season Heated socks sold at Costco recalled after burn reports Lujan, Stewart sweep Athletes of the Week for Midland High Launch fails to put Midland-made satellite in proper orbit Let's Play