Skybox eyes six-building data center campus in San Angelo, Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Skybox eyes six-building data center campus in San Angelo, Texas Company in talks to buy land from city January 06, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Skybox Datacenters is looking to develop a new campus in Texas. Local press, including KTXS , San Angelo Live , and Go San Angelo , report the San Angelo city council is set to consider plans from Skybox to develop a new campus in the Tom Green County city. – City of San Angelo Skybox is looking to develop around 350 acres of city-owned land northeast of the city near US Highway 67 North and City Farm Road. At $50,000 per acre, the expected sale price is around $17.4 million. The company reportedly aims to develop six four-story buildings totaling 248,000 sq ft (23,040 sqm) each. Further details on timelines weren’t shared. News of the development first surfaced in May 2025 when the city council unanimously approved a 6–0 vote authorizing the city manager to negotiate and execute a purchase and sales agreement with Skybox. The development would use spare capacity from the nearby Red Creek substation. The city currently only uses around 10 percent of the station’s capacity. The San Angelo city council is set to meet next week to discuss a proposed zone change for the property. Skybox has partnered with industrial real estate firm Prologis for multiple campuses in Texas (Austin, Dallas), as well as Virginia and Illinois (Chicago, since sold to HMC Capital). The company also previously sold a data center in Houston to Element Critical. Skybox has other projects in Houston, Texas, and in Santa Clara, California. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 01 Dec 2025 UK data centers need "separate use class" to avoid housing construction delays, says London committee Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 15 Dec 2025 Fermi share price craters as tenant pulls back from $150m Texas data center deal Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags San Angelo Skybox Skybox Datacenters Texas Tom Green County Comments