Applied Digital completes first data center building at North Dakota campus - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Applied Digital completes first data center building at North Dakota campus First 100MW of 400MW campus now operational December 01, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say Applied Digital has completed its first data center building at its campus in Ellendale, North Dakota. This data center – known as Building 1 – was built in two phases of 50MW each, and this announcement marks the completion of that second phase. The first phase was made ready for service in late October of this year. An Applied Digital data center in Ellendale – Applied Digital The campus, known as the Polaris Forge 1 AI Factory Campus, is set to offer 400MW at full buildout. Polaris Forge 1 began construction in September 2022 as part of the company’s crypto and HPC business, but all of its capacity will now be taken up by CoreWeave. The neocloud initially signed on for 250MW in June before increasing the agreement to take up all capacity as part of an $11bn , 15-year agreement. Applied Digital changed its name from Applied Blockchain in November 2022 as part of the company’s shift towards business offerings other than crypto. Applied also hosts HPC and AI hardware amid massive demand for available capacity. The company is also offering its own cloud services and has previously said it will host and offer access to Nvidia Blackwell GPUs. But the company still operates cryptomining data centers. This includes the 180MW ELN01 facility, also located in Ellendale. The city of Ellendale is in southern North Dakota, situated close to the state’s border with South Dakota. More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 12 Feb 2026 AWS likely behind $4.8bn data center in Walla Walla, Washington Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 25 Feb 2026 Vantage and Altarea plan 400MW data center in Bordeaux, France Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era Tags Applied Digital Ellendale North Dakota Polaris Forge 1 AI Factory Campus hyperscale Comments