360MW data center to be built outside Austin, Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 360MW data center to be built outside Austin, Texas Construction set to take three and a half years April 01, 2026 By Jason Ma Have your say A data center offering 360MW of capacity is set to be built outside of Austin, Texas, after receiving planning approval from the local authority. The city council of Taylor, a city 35 miles (56km) northeast of Austin, voted unanimously last Thursday, March 26, to approve annexation and zoning requests related to ‘Project Comal,’ which will be built on a 220-acre land parcel at 1051 County Road 401. – KDC Real Estate The parcel is right next to a planned Samsung semiconductor manufacturing plant, which is set to come online this year . Project Comal will contain six data center buildings and two substations, according to a site plan shared with the city. The developer, a real estate firm called KDC, has said that the facility will get its energy from Texas electric utility Oncor. KDC also claims that the project will create up to 3,000 construction jobs over a three-and-a-half-year estimated construction period. Taylor City Council also approved another data center project last July . It will be located on a 52-acre parcel at 1601 Martin Luther King Jr. Drive and will span 135,000 sq ft (12,542 sqm). KDC Real Estate specializes in commercial office buildings, corporate build-to-suit facilities, and mixed-use projects, according to its website. Like other real estate companies, KDC is attempting to capitalize on the data center boom, and it appointed former CyrusOne executive Robert Child as its executive vice president of Data Center Development in February of this year. More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 11 Mar 2026 Amazon Leo requests FCC refuse SpaceX plan to launch a million satellites Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 16 Mar 2026 City Council of Provo, Utah, votes against data center rezoning proposal Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive Tags Austin KDC Real Estate Project Comal Taylor Texas Comments