Sites & Buildings | Scott County, VA Skip to Main Content Create a Website Account - Manage notification subscriptions, save form progress and more. Website Sign In Home Business Economic Development Business Sites & Buildings Sites & Buildings Scott County has the following sites and buildings available. The Virginia Department of Small Business and Supplier Diversity can help with questions concerning conducting business in Virginia. Visit the SBSD Website . Riverside Development - Weber City, VA Now Available! Riverside Technology Building, Weber City, VA. Located in the Riverside Development (PDF) in an Enterprise Zone and an Opportunity Zone . For more information, visit Riverside Website Scott County Regional Business & Technology Park - Duffield, VA The 65-acre tract yields almost 55 developable acres, all fully served by access roads, water, sewer, broadband communications, and all necessary support services. The park is specifically geared to technology-dependent firms with plans for bringing a level of bandwidth, redundant service, and aggressive pricing for such services to the park to a degree never before offered in the Virginia-Tennessee region. Duffield Premier Data Center Site Duffield Site is designated as one of twelve Premier Data Center Sites in the TVA Region. View the press release (PDF) and the site location. These sites and building are located in an Enterprise Zone These sites and buildings are located in an Enterprise Zone . Crooked Road Tech Center - Duffield, VA View more information (PDF) . Pioneer Center for Business Opportunity - Duffield, VA The Pioneer Center is a 46,000 sq. ft. business incubater/center for startup or existing small businesses. For more information, please call 276-523-9454 or 276-386-2525. Additional Assistance Projects may qualify for additional assistance from the following: The Virginia Tobacco Region Revitalization Commission's Tobacco Region Opportunity Fund (TROF), the Virginia Coalfield Economic Development Authority's Coalfield Region Opportunity Fund (CROF), and the Virginia Economic Development Partnership. Government Websites by CivicPlus® Loading Loading Do Not Show Again Close Arrow Left Arrow Right [] Slideshow Left Arrow Slideshow Right Arrow