Municipal leaders debate data center zoning ordinance in Dorrance Township, Pennsylvania - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Municipal leaders debate data center zoning ordinance in Dorrance Township, Pennsylvania Planning Commission says no data center proposal yet been made July 29, 2025 By Georgia Butler Have your say Dorrance Township in Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, is debating updating its zoning ordinance to address data center developments. As reported by The Citizens' Voice , a recent meeting held by the Planning Commission saw more than 100 residents attend in order to hear the discussion. – Google Maps According to township officials, Dorrance was approached by a real estate consultant asking about laws regarding data centers. Currently, the zoning ordinance does not specifically reference data center developments. Kirk Buchanan, chair of the Planning Commission, told residents that the township has not yet had a data center proposal. "We don’t have a plan before us. No one has requested anything. There was a rumor floating around someone might ask. That’s why we are here. We want to get out in front of it,” Buchanan said. He added that while people may be concerned about the prospect of data centers, the township can't entirely rule them out, and that the officials had studied other areas' zoning ordinances to create a draft. The first draft says that data centers must be limited to 250,000 sq ft (23,226 sqm) and set back 300 feet (91m) from other property lines. He added that he expects they will also be restricted to the two industrial zones in Dorrance. Other requirements included vegetation buffers, water supply requirements, and noise standards. The planning commission aims to adopt draft ordinance changes in August, with supervisors to vote on the law changes as early as September. Dorrance is located northwest of Philadelphia, nearby to Salem Township, where Amazon Web Services (AWS) is developing data centers. AWS has been looking to develop in Salem Township since early 2024 . The company acquired an existing data center from Talen Energy and around 1,200 acres of land. AWS successfully rezoned 1,600 acres in the area to “Special Data Center Overlay District" in May 2024 . AWS plans to develop 15 data center buildings on the site over the course of the next decade. Most of Pennsylvania's data centers are located in either Philadelphia or Pittsburgh. Operators in the state include Iron Mountain, EdgeConneX, Ark, DataBank, Equinix, and 365 Data Centers, among others. More in Standards & Regulations Sponsored When permitting becomes programme risk – and what to do about it 31 Oct 2025 Sponsored Beyond innovation: How partnership and integration are powering the data centers of tomorrow Episode Rethinking fire protection for high-density facilities More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 25 Feb 2026 Microsoft to start permitting for 1,385-acre data center campus in North Carolina Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Dorrance Township Kirk Buchanan Luzerne County Pennsylvania Comments