Possible Data Center ‘Megasite’ Listed for Sale in Upson County | News | upsonbeacon.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Close Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save A 1,443-acre tract at 795 Windsweep Farm Road in Upson County is listed for sale, according to LoopNet.com . SugarOak Realty, LLC is marketing the former W.R. Bean and Son property as a potential “Megasite,” aimed at attracting a large-scale data center development. Although the tax assessor lists Manty Tree, LLC as the property owner, sources say the land is held by Dominion Capital, an Atlanta-based holding company that purchased it in 2021. Marketing materials posted by SugarOak on LoopNet originally outlined conceptual plans for the site, including wetlands, a stream, a natural gas line, power lines, multiple water retention bays, 13 data center footprints (each roughly 250,000 square feet each), a 10-acre AC substation, a 20-acre AC substation, and a 10-acre power generation plant. The plan also contains a 200-foot reservation for buffer and grading. The site is advertised as offering: •Direct access to 23 kV and 115 kV transmission lines. •Injection study confirms potentially robust capacity with 74.7 megawatts transferable power available on 115 kV line and 741 MW on the 230 kV, ideal for scalable, power-intensive operations. •1,443 acres for a scalable development. •Fiber backbone already in place (Windstream wholesale). •1,000 psi natural gas pipeline (Southern Company gas) with 50,000–80,000 Dth/d available within 9–12 months. •45 miles from Fayetteville campuses. •Nearby power plants: (Edward L. Addison Generating Plant – 3.2 miles - 701.2 MW; Piedmont Green Power – 12.3 miles - 55 MW; Smarr Energy Center – 23.7 miles - 242 MW, expanding 1,200 MW; Scherer Power Plant – 27 miles - 3,564 MW. The Upson Beacon emailed SugarOak Realty Thursday morning with questions regarding potential land use, but SugarOak has not replied. Earlier this year, former Upson County Manager Jason Tinsley and Thomaston-Upson Industrial Development Authority Executive Director Slade Gulledge sought input from county commissioners on updating zoning ordinances to attract technology-based businesses. Gulledge said, “At the [T-U IDA], we're in the opportunity business. We carefully explore and evaluate every potential prospect and or project that could strengthen our local economy and contribute to a more balanced and sustainable tax base for the future. We're looking forward to the upcoming town hall meeting where details about this future possibility can be explored and community input can be gathered.” Following a series of hearings and planning sessions, the Upson County Board of Commissioners voted unanimously July 22 to adopt the ordinance in the monthly commissioners’ meeting. The change allows technology-based businesses to seek technology overlay districts (TODs) in A-R (agricultural-residential) zones, as well as amendments in M-1 (light manufacturing) and M-2 (general manufacturing) districts. The county planning commission had unanimously recommended approval at its June 9 meeting. The meetings and hearings were advertised in advance, regarding the TOD. According to Upson Planning Director Doug Currier, property owners must apply for “pre-zoning” to use the technology overlay, which follows the normal rezoning process with public notice and hearings. Currently, no properties have applied, though M-1 and M-2 districts already include the same provisions through recent amendments. If approved, the new TOD-1 would allow parcels to retain their underlying A-R zoning while also adding the overlay. Zoning stays with the property, regardless of who owns it. To address community questions, Upson Commissioner Chris Biggs will hold a town hall meeting once all parties involved are able to coordinate schedules. Meanwhile, residents who have concerns or questions can email Commissioner Biggs at biggs7751@charter.net . Biggs, who also works in healthcare, said he has questions of his own. “One of my questions is about water usage,” he said. “The volume of water needed will come from the City of Thomaston, but how will it be disposed of, or will it be recycled? Where is it going, and are there any health risks associated with it? “Another question is about fire protection. Rock Hill is a volunteer fire department and does an excellent job, but if there were a fire, additional resources would be needed,” Biggs continued. “I know I have questions, and I believe my constituents who live out there will too. Everyone in the community will be invited to attend.” The MEGASITE conceptual plan has been removed reportedly for editing. The new TOD ordinance, No. 286, is attached to this story. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Debbie McClain Publisher & Advertising Director Author email Follow Debbie McClain × Post a comment as anonymous Emoticons [smile] [beam] [wink] [sad] [cool] [innocent] [rolleyes] [whistling] [lol] [huh] [tongue] [love] [sleeping] [yawn] [unsure] [angry] [blink] [crying] [ohmy] [scared] [sleep] [sneaky] [tongue_smile] [thumbdown] [thumbup] [censored] [happybirthday] [ban] [spam] [offtopic] [batman] [ninja] [pirate] [alien] Comment Text Cancel Post comment × Report Cancel Report Abuse × Watch this discussion. Stop watching this discussion. Watch this discussion Get an email notification whenever someone contributes to the discussion Notifications from this discussion will be disabled. Cancel Start watching Stop watching (0) comments Welcome to the discussion. Log In Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK. Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything. Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person. Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts. Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article. Post a comment Watch this discussion. Stop watching this discussion. Latest News Mr. Richard Stephen Pitts Upson BOC Meets April 28 BOC Denies Water Harvesting Rezone Brightmark’s Air Permit Published to State EPD Site Head-On Crash Claims Life of Thomaston Man Thomaston Holds 5th Annual Art & Soul Fest BOC Updated on Transit Development Plan IDA Acquires 222 Acres for 3rd Industrial Park Most Popular Articles Images Videos Commented Articles Head-On Crash Claims Life of Thomaston Man IDA Acquires 222 Acres for 3rd Industrial Park BOC Denies Water Harvesting Rezone T-U Recreation Hires Reviere as Seasonal Adult Athletic Coordinator Pleas Accepted by Judges Sams, Miller Something to Crow About Unattended Car Found on Blocks Johnston Announces Campaign for Upson District 3 Commissioner Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program for Cooling is Open Brightmark’s Air Permit Published to State EPD Site Images Videos Sorry, there are no recent results for popular videos. Commented Who Do I Think Should Be the Next U-L Football Head Coach? (1) Mason and Ivy Bridges (1) Stocks Market Data by TradingView © Copyright 2026 The Upson Beacon 219 Thomas Street, Thomaston, GA | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital . Back × Log In You are logged in Switch accounts Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. Back × Sign Up Account processing issue - the email address may already exist User information Username (Optional) This is the name that will be displayed next to your photo for comments, blog posts, and more. Choose wisely! * Email Address Your email address will be used to confirm your account.