Home | QHPC Norton top of page Self-powered innovation that protects the environment and your local power grid. Learn More Sustainable Advanced Computing in Norton Local Partnership Shaping the Future About Project Triton Project Triton is an innovative infrastructure initiative being developed in Norton that uses advanced on-site energy to relieve stress on the regional power grid. It will create computing systems designed to serve local, regional and national needs for high-performance technology, while generating new employment and revenue for the community. Well-Paying Jobs Project Triton will create more than 280 construction-phase jobs totaling over $40 million in wages, and sustain about 110 permanent operations jobs with salaries exceeding $10 million annually, providing stable, well-paying opportunities for local workers. Local Tax Revenue The project is designed to generate significant tax revenues for the Norton City School District and surrounding communities, supporting long-term needs. Stimulate Local Economy By engaging local vendors, contractors, and service providers during construction and ongoing operations, Project Triton will increase demand for local goods and services, creating a ripple effect that stimulates Norton’s business community. Our Strategic Partners Frequently Asked Questions General Community and Impact Construction and Timeline Technology and Infrastructure Community Involvement Addressing Specific Community Questions Norton Town Hall Q & A What is NES Project Triton? Project Triton is an innovative infrastructure initiative being developed in Norton that uses advanced on-site energy to relieve stress on the regional power grid. It will create computing systems designed to serve local, regional and national needs for high-performance technology, while generating new employment and revenue for the community. Why was Norton chosen as the location? Norton provides a strategic location with strong access to transportation, workforce, and utilities such as energy and fiber infrastructure. Who is leading Project Triton? The project is being led and developed by Quantum HPC Infrastructure on property owned by NES. Quantum HPC is a grid-independent facility systems developer, constructor and operator. Quantum HPC is partnering with experienced and highly recognized engineering, design, construction, operations and community partners. Stay Informed About Project Triton Subscribe to receive community updates from our team. Email * Yes, subscribe me to your updates. Submit Get In Touch We're here to answer any questions you have. Fill out the form below or email us at info@qhpcnorton.com . First name Last name Phone Email * Question or Comment Contact Us Today bottom of page