TA Realty gets green light for data center outside Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel TA Realty gets green light for data center outside Atlanta, Georgia Company previously announced Atlanta data center project with EdgeConneX October 24, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Plans for a new data center outside Atlanta, Georgia have been given the go-ahead by local officials. First reported by the Clayton News-Daily , the Clayton County Board of Commissioners voted 3-1 to approve a site plan for a data center at a meeting last week. TA Realty files to build a data center outside Atlanta – Google Maps TA Realty had requested approval for a site plan, height increase, and modifications for a proposed data center at 4350 E Tanners Church Road in Ellenwood, southeast of Atlanta. The property totals just under 35 acres of greenfield land along E Tanners Church Road, between Dunn and Williamson roads. Further details of the data center weren’t shared. Staff had recommended approval with conditions, after a zoning advisory group last month also voted for approval with conditions. The News-Daily reports eight residents spoke against the data center during the public hearing before the vote, reportedly concerned about water use, noise, and traffic. Previous listings have seen the land available for sale as the Clayton Commerce Center III, with Reliant Real Estate Partners as the broker. TA Realty previously acquired the Clayton Commerce Center II, a 365,000-square-foot distribution center located at the neighboring 2764 Anvilblock Road, in 2021 . Reliant Real Estate had broken ground on the facility the year before . The original Clayton Commerce Center, located a mile away at 3120 Anvilblock Road, is a distribution center leased to FedEx. North American real estate investment firm TA Realty launched a dedicated hyperscale data center development arm earlier this year . The Mitsubishi Estate-backed company announced in November 2023 that it had signed a 430MW build-to-suit lease agreement for its entire data center campus in Loudoun County with an unnamed cloud services provider. Full build-out of the Leesburg, Virginia, site is expected in 2027. The project will be managed by the new hyperscale division. In July, TA Realty partnered with EdgeConneX to develop a 324MW data center campus in Atlanta . Exact details weren’t shared but reports suggest it could be in the Union City area. More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 06 Jan 2026 Beale Infrastructure in talks to build data center campus outside Tulsa, Oklahoma Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 18 Mar 2026 Akamai deploys Nvidia "AI Grid" across 4,400 Edge locations, claims to be first Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Georgia Ellenwood Clayton County 350 E Tanners Church Road Clayton Commerce Center III Reliant Real Estate Partners TA Realty Atlanta Comments