Community concerns halt proposed data center project in Kalamazoo County Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 66 ° Sat 64 ° Sun 66 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY Community concerns halt proposed data center project in Kalamazoo County by Autumn Pitchure | News Channel 3 Thu, October 30, 2025 at 4:58 PM Updated Thu, October 30, 2025 at 9:41 PM A plot of industrial zoned land in Pavilion Township at S 26th St. and East N Avenue, September 2, 2025. A data center could be built on this site owned by real estate company Franklin Partners. (Ray Hole/WWMT) Comment on this story 2 Comment Share story Share topics: Data center Kalamazoo County Community concerns Franklin Partners Electricity usage Environmental impact Pavilion Township Project halt PAVILION TOWNSHIP, Mich. — A project to turn a rural section of Kalamazoo County into a major industrial hub has been halted. Real estate company Franklin Partners LLC was proposing to turn a plot of land on South 26th Street and East N Avenue in Pavilion Township into a new data center. However, co-founder Don Shoemaker told News Channel 3 Thursday the company is reconsidering their decision after hearing from concerned community members. Previous Coverage: Residents concerned about major data center proposal in Pavilion Township The company was hoping to expand their reach in the Kalamazoo market, but it hasn't gone as planned. "People felt very surprised and blindsided in that it was going very, very quickly," Katelyn Clarey, a Vicksburg resident, said. According to Clarey, there has been major pushback from community members at township board meetings, beginning with their concerns over electricity usage. "In other communities there has been quite an increase in electricity costs," Clarey said. "Some communities they're seeing a 20% increase." Pavilion Township supervisor John Speeter said the data center's high monthly payments shouldn't spill over into the surrounding community. "If anything, there might be some economies of scale that their bills may go down because of the larger wires and additional usage," he said. Residents are also worried about the thousands of gallons of water needed for cooling at the site and its environmental impact, according to Clarey. "In other communities we've seen generators get used a lot more for these plants and it affects the air quality in local communities," Clarey said. "A lot of times they're using dirty fuels." According to Franklin Partners LLC co-founder Don Shoemaker, the company is listening to these concerns, deciding Monday to pause their plans. "Public displeasure is not a way we look at doing business. We want to make sure our interests are aligned with the community," Shoemaker said in a statement to News Channel 3. Technology Advancements: Portage police utilizing AI transcription to assist with reports The project was in the proposal stages pending approval by the planning commission. It will now be taken off the township board's agenda for the remainder of the year, according to Speeter. "It's nice to know that it's someone that's listening who is not just trying to do whatever he can to push through what he wants," Clarey said. "I don't know what will happen, come after those meetings, but as of right now, it was a really nice development to hear that he really wanted to slow things down for the community." Shoemaker told News Channel 3 that Franklin Partners LLC is considering other development opportunities at the site. Comment with Bubbles READ THE COMMENTS (2) "We want to make sure this is a project the community can get excited about," Shoemaker said. Trending Cut fiber cable causing Verizon service outage in Kalamazoo County was an act of vandalism A cut fiber is causing a Verizon outage on Thursday. Four Kalamazoo residents arrested after US-131 stop; 400+ grams of crystal meth seized On April 22, deputies from the Allegan County Sheriff's Office (ACSO) conducted a traffic stop near US-131 and 116th Street in Martin Township. Battle Creek citywide "required landscaping" ordinance proposal to curb parking on lawns The City of Battle Creek is taking issue with vehicles being parked on front lawns and the dirt patches left behind. Thousands of taxpayers in Michigan mistakenly sent Notice of Adjustment letters Thousands of taxpaying Michiganders were mistakenly sent "Notice of Adjustment" letters. Woman arrested for operating while intoxicated after driving through construction zone State police arrested a 20-year-old woman for operating while intoxicated (OWI) on Wednesday. NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 3 Home destroyed by fire in Gobles, no injuries reported 6 Truck driver involved in fiery tanker crash on US-131 cited for driving too fast 4 Kalamazoo event aims to help students explore career paths related to climate change 4 WMU NASO hosts Earth Day water ceremony and Indigenous art, panel, drum performance