Tract expands Austin data center park to 3,000 acres - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Tract expands Austin data center park to 3,000 acres Company says Caldwell Valley Technology Park can now support up to 4GW January 14, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Data center park developer Tract has nearly doubled the size of a planned campus in Austin, Texas. The company this week announced that it has added 1,458 acres of contiguous land to its existing 1,515-acre Caldwell Valley Technology Park in Caldwell County. – Tract The almost 3,000-acre site can reportedly support up to 4GW of data center capacity. “We are happy to expand in Caldwell County, creating one of the largest data center campuses in Texas that is close to a robust workforce and strategically located for all data center use cases,” said Graham Williams, president of Tract. “The uniqueness of this location and support from our local partners, made it a clear decision to double down on our investments here.” The company first acquired a 1,515-acre land parcel in Caldwell County, located south of Austin and northeast of San Antonio, in May 2025. At the time, the site, located near the city of Uhland, would reportedly support more than 2GW at full build-out, with the initial 360MW grid connection energized in 2028 in partnership with Blue Bonnet Electric Cooperative. News that the company was seeking to develop in Texas first surfaced in October 2024 . The company had previously filed for planning permission with the Uhland City Council for land along Farm to Market Road 2720. Chipmaker Micron was also previously considering the area as the home of a new chip fab site, but instead settled on a site in New York. Tract this week said it, Bluebonnet, and LCRA are planning for an on-site substation capable of scaling to 1.6GW, with the first 250MW of capacity contracted for delivery in the first quarter of 2028. Tract also said it has initiated plans for on-site power generation that will become grid-connected. Details haven’t been shared, but BizJournal reports it will be a natural gas plant. “Tract continues to prove itself a strong, collaborative partner who is interested in becoming a part of the community and supporting our growing needs,” said County Judge Hoppy Haden. “Their willingness to invest in our priority initiatives demonstrates a long-term commitment and reflects a partnership based on trust, respect, and shared goals.” Colorado-based Tract was founded by former Cologix CEO Grant van Rooyen and describes itself as a company that acquires and develops ‘master-planned’ data center parks. The company aims to get sites zoned, powered, and shovel-ready for other companies to develop data centers on. After launching in Nevada in 2023, Tract has plans for large-scale campuses across Texas , Virginia ( x3 ), Arizona , Minnesota ( x3 ), Iowa , and Utah . On its website, the company also lists planned developments in Illinois and has been pursuing a project in North Carolina . The company says it now has more than 25GW of planned capacity and over 25,000 acres of land under control across the country, including campuses exceeding 1,000 acres and 1GW in each of Arizona, Iowa, Nevada, Texas, Utah, and Virginia. Two other Texas projects around San Antonio are listed on the company’s site: The 339-acre, 720MW Applewhite Technology Park, and the 265-acre, 500MW Medina Technology Park. Tract’s parent, Tract Capital, recently launched a dedicated data center developer, known as Fleet DC, that will develop on land owned by Tract as well as other sites. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 10 Mar 2026 Alberta Utilities Commission rejects gas-fired power plant for Synapse data center near Calgary, Canada Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 07 Nov 2025 Modular data center operator BluSky AI to lease five acres in Oklahoma Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Austin Caldwell County Caldwell Valley Technology Park Texas Tract Uhland Comments