Mercer County residents speak out on proposed data center Advertisement Advertisement Return to Homepage Top Stories: DOJ revives firing squads Golden orb ocean discovery Netanyahu cancer diagnosis $400K Maduro capture bet Israel-Lebanon ceasefire Oklahoma tornado ICE and Border Patrol funding Medical marijuana reclassification Navy secretary ousted Judge blocks Va. voting maps MERCER COUNTY, Ky. ( FOX 56 )—More than 50 people signed up to speak Wednesday night during a special-called meeting by the Harrodsburg-Mercer County Joint Planning and Zoning Commission, where residents gathered to voice concerns about a proposed data center on privately owned farmland off U.S. 68. The proposal sparked strong reactions from community members who say an industrial data center does not belong near homes and farms. Residents raised a wide range of concerns, including potential health impacts on people and animals, water usage, as well as noise, light, and air pollution. Advertisement Advertisement Questions surround proposed Mercer County data center development “A large industrial data center placed near our farm, literally right across the street, is fundamentally incompatible with the care, training, and safety of our performance horse,” said Caitlin Cooper who lives and is the co-owner of Desmar Stables. Dr. Rick Angel brought his medical expertise to the podium, speaking about the adverse effects the data center could have on people, ranging from heart health and insomnia to mental health. “Mental health burdens are chronic stress, loss of well-being, feeling like the city is coming in my neighborhood has been shown to cause psychological stress,” said Dr. Angel. Advertisement Advertisement Others said the project would change the rural character of the area “Once this farmland is paved over, folks, it is gone, and it’s gone for good,” Mercer County resident Kim Yeast added. The Harrodsburg-Mercer County Joint Planning and Zoning Commission in Harrodsburg hired consultant Curry Roberts of Parkway Strategies LLC to advise on the project. Roberts appeared via Zoom and presented information about the potential benefits of data centers, pointing to economic growth that has been seen in other states with data centers, such as Virginia. “In 2023, data centers in Virginia directly provided 12,140 operational jobs and more than 14,000 construction jobs. Every direct data center job supports 3.5 additional jobs in the broader regional economy,” Roberts said. Advertisement Advertisement Attorney Hank Graddy was contacted by organizers of “We Are Mercer County,” an organization dedicated to protecting the community’s farmland and history, who asked him to speak to the commission on Wednesday. During his 15 minutes at the podium, Graddy was greeted by several rounds of applause as he recommended county leaders temporarily pause any action on data center proposals. “I recommend that this planning commission request the Mercer County fiscal court to adopt a moratorium of consideration of any data center applications until the planning commission has had sufficient time to research the appropriate land use regulations and environmental protections,” Graddy said. For some residents, the debate goes beyond this specific project. LATEST KENTUCKY NEWS: More Kentucky children dying to ‘preventable’ overdoses, new report shows Missing person’s body found inside overturned vehicle in Campbell County creek Paris man accused of sodomy, exploiting children online Advertisement Advertisement Diane Floyd started a Change.org petition opposing the data center and is also a part of “We Are Mercer County.” She told FOX 56 she wants to ensure community voices are heard on future developments as well. “I want to talk to them about making sure that citizens are going to be heard in the future. Not just on this data center project, but on other possible industrial developments,” Floyd said. Mercer County Judge Executive Sarah Steele told FOX 56 that a private landowner is marketing their property for a potential data center. She said the zoning committee will be using its hired consultant to evaluate how data centers may be addressed within county regulations. No official decision has been made. Those opposed to the data center say they plan to continue organizing and advocating for what they believe is best for the community in central Kentucky. Advertisement Advertisement Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. For the latest news, weather, sports, and streaming video, head to FOX 56 News. View comments About Our Ads Recommended articles Why Jermod McCoy's slide has gone from potential top-10 pick to last day of the NFL Draft Sources told Yahoo Sports that McCoy's knee also had a repair that included a "bone plug." The concern with the procedure is that over time, it can call for re-operation and the kind of chronic cartilage issues that end athletic careers. Yahoo Sports QBs Carson Beck, Drew Allar were surprise NFL Draft selections for most. Here's what their paths look like for getting playing time Allar's selection has no impact whatsoever on the team's hope that Aaron Rodgers returns for 2026. As for Beck, among the first three QBs drafted, you could argue he is the winner in terms of surrounding pieces and potential immediate opportunity. Yahoo Sports Jarrell Miller vs. Lenier Pero live results, round-by-round updates, ring walks, start time for heavyweight fight Follow Jarrell Miller vs. Lenier Pero live results and round-by-round updates for the Miller vs. Pero fight card on Saturday in Las Vegas. Uncrowned Sean McVay downplays 'grumpy' demeanor after Rams' selection of Ty Simpson, embraces GM Les Snead McVay's news conference drew more than a few eyebrows after Day 1 of the NFL Draft. Yahoo Sports WWE SmackDown results, grades (April 24): Jacob Fatu stalls for Roman Reigns; Danhausen wins again This week's "WWE SmackDown" kicked off with Jacob Fatu explaining how beating Roman Reigns — the new WWE champion — could be his ticket to success. Uncrowned 2026 NFL Draft: Penn State QB Drew Allar goes to Steelers as possible Aaron Rodgers heir Drew Allar played in six games last season due to an ankle injury. Yahoo Sports 2026 NFL Draft: Pairing Denzel Boston with KC Concepcion makes Browns WR room more versatile, interesting The Browns drafted a WR in Denzel Boston to pair with fellow rookie KC Concepcion. Yahoo Sports Kayden McDonald overcome with emotion after his long wait in green room ends in 2nd round Kayden McDonald was talked into staying for the second day of the draft. Yahoo Sports 2026 NFL Draft Rounds 2-3 grades for every pick: QBs picked in strange spots and 2 value picks in Round 2 Yahoo Sports draft analyst Charles McDonald graded every pick of the NFL Draft's Day 2. Yahoo Sports Josiah Trotter becomes 2nd son of former NFL LB Jeremiah Trotter to be drafted, going to the Bucs Josiah Trotter is the second Trotter to be selected in the past three drafts. Yahoo Sports Advertisement