Kewaunee County town staves off plan for a land purchase by a data center developer Skip to content News News Politics Courts Economy Education Indigenous Rural Voices Social Issues Health Environment Agriculture Science Politics Kewaunee County town staves off plan for a land purchase by a data center developer Cloverleaf Infrastructure is no longer pursuing land to build a data center in the town of Carlton, located on the shore of Lake Michigan south of Kewaunee, as local opponents voice their concerns about such developments in the region. Wisconsin Watch January 21, 2026 • Northeast Region Out-of-focus wildflowers in the foreground partially obscure a line of trees and a round concrete building with a low dome on the horizon. By Miranda Dunlap, Wisconsin Watch This story was produced and originally published by Wisconsin Watch , a nonprofit, nonpartisan newsroom. Leaders of data center developer Cloverleaf Infrastructure have decided against pursuing land to build a data center in the town of Carlton in Kewaunee County after local residents opposed the idea. The company scrapped its plans in the northeast Wisconsin farming community in late 2025, Cloverleaf and town of Carlton officials confirmed last week. “The town chairperson said, ‘I don’t support data centers. I don’t think this is a good fit,’” Cloverleaf’s Chief Development Officer Aaron Bilyeu said. “We shook hands and said ‘thank you.’” Cloverleaf’s decision to back off makes Carlton one of the latest towns to fend off companies looking for the space to erect often-massive data warehouses powering artificial intelligence, social media and cloud computing. Wisconsin Watch reported in October 2025 that some Carlton residents were nervous about selling local farmland to build a data center after town officials said interested developers reached out to them. Those fears were stoked by news that Carlton’s shuttered nuclear power plant may see new life. The plant’s owner is seeking government approval for a new nuclear power station at the site because it believes data centers and artificial intelligence will increase the state’s energy demand. “I’m against big business,” said town Chairman David Hardtke, who has pushed back against the idea for months. “People in the town of Carlton do not want the AI (data) center.” David Hardtke, town of Carlton chairman and third-generation farmer, poses for a portrait next to one of his many vintage tractors on Sept. 16, 2025, in Kewaunee. Hardtke confirmed that Cloverleaf Infrastructure is no longer looking to build a data center in the town. (Credit: Joe Timmerman / Wisconsin Watch) Similar dilemmas have played out in other rural Wisconsin communities, as residents try to block tech giants from settling in their towns. In recent weeks, Cloverleaf offered to buy property for a data center in Greenleaf, a village in Brown County. The move drew outrage from community members, leading Cloverleaf officials to ax the proposal in January 2026. The decision in Carlton was a much quieter conclusion for residents of a county where cattle outnumber people by nearly 5 to 1. Some community members told Wisconsin Watch they were nervous about what losing more farmland would mean for local families and business owners. “Once they take land away, you know, it’ll never come back,” Chris Kohnle, president of the local Tisch Mills Farm Center, told Wisconsin Watch in September. Others were less concerned, telling Wisconsin Watch that Kewaunee County has stagnated since the nuclear plant shuttered. They shared hopes that investment from big business could create more economic activity, well-paying local jobs and a reason for young people to stay in the area. “If you bring in an employer like that who is paying, you’re going to see development. You’re going to see new homes being built, and more businesses move in,” Kewaunee County resident Dan Giannotti said in August. “Because right now we’re just stagnant … nothing’s happening to speak of.” Despite striking out in Carlton and Greenleaf, Bilyeu said Cloverleaf is still looking for a data center site in northeast Wisconsin. Wisconsin is attractive to data center developers because of the tax incentives it offers and its cool climate. Data centers need cooling methods to prevent overheating — making Carlton’s proximity to a massive water source particularly attractive. “We’re not the only ones looking for data center sites in the area,” Bilyeu said. “We’re just the only ones that are forthright, and we’ll actually talk to people and identify ourselves and let people know what we’re doing and what we’re interested in.” Carlton still remains on the precipice of much potential change, as the Kewaunee Power Station project inches forward. Last week, plant owner EnergySolutions submitted files to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission that company spokespeople describe as “an important next step” in getting government approval to bring nuclear power back to the site. The permitting process is lengthy, and even if everything goes smoothly, they don’t expect construction would begin until the early 2030s. Miranda Dunlap reports on pathways to success in northeast Wisconsin, working in partnership with Open Campus . This story was produced as part of the NEW (Northeast Wisconsin) News Lab , a consortium of six news outlets. More Politics Inside Wisconsin Politics How much will endorsements matter in Wisconsin's 2026 races? Elections Wisconsin's 2026 governor candidates on the cost of housing Politics US Supreme Court rules for Michigan in the state's lawsuit to shut down Line 5 section Policy What are next steps for online sports betting in Wisconsin? Politics Protesters converge outside the Wisconsin governor's office seeking release of beagles Politics 'Here & Now' Highlights: Kurt Kotenberg, US Sen. Ron Johnson, Chairwoman Elizabeth Arbuckle Contact Email: [email protected] Phone: 800-422-9707 PBS Wisconsin Vilas Communications Hall 821 University Ave. Madison, WI 53706 View map FAQ Explore About Us Blog Broadcast Channels Shop Apparel & Accessories Pressroom Join Us Career Opportunities Events Newsletters Travel Support Us Donate Become a Member Door to Door Friends of PBS Wisconsin Leadership Circles Legacy and Planned Giving Sponsorship Volunteer Lucky-Go-Happy Sweepstakes Federal Tax ID: 23-7300462 Our Partners PBS Wisconsin is a service of the Wisconsin Educational Communications Board and the University of Wisconsin-Madison . © 2026 All Rights Reserved. Follow Us PBS Wisconsin on Facebook PBS Wisconsin Bluesky Feed PBS Wisconsin on LinkedIn PBS Wisconsin on YouTube PBS Wisconsin on Instagram Editorial Policies | FCC Applications | Public Inspection Files | Public Inspection File Assistance | Privacy Policy