Columbus City Council discusses proposed $5.18 billion data center; residents voice concern | WRBL Skip to content by: Fionna Magee Posted: Feb 25, 2026 / 12:55 AM EST Updated: Mar 1, 2026 / 11:20 AM EST SHARE COLUMBUS, Ga. ( WRBL ) — A proposed multi-billion-dollar data center campus could bring major economic growth to Columbus, but it’s also raising questions from residents about long-term environmental and community impacts. Local leaders say the project could total more than $5.18 billion in investment between 2027 and 2030. The development would be located on roughly 900 acres in northeast Muscogee County, near the Harris and Talbot County line. Drone image of property near Layfield Road. (Kevin Roble/WRBL News 3) According to the economic development arm of Columbus, Choose Columbus, the project could generate 195 permanent jobs paying between $80,000 and $120,000 a year, along with an estimated 1,500 construction jobs. “We’re talking about good jobs, high paying jobs, 195 permanent jobs… those are not the construction jobs,” said Missy Kendrick, President and CEO of Choose Columbus. “There are going to be about 1,500 construction jobs associated with the data center.” PREVIOUS COVERAGE: ‘Choose Columbus’ to begin developing project plans to attract major data center Kendrick says the project came to Choose Columbus from a Georgia-based conservation group, Habitat Partners. She says the group privately purchased the property and is now working with a data center developer company, Atlas Development. The development would bring a large-scale data center campus, designed to support digital infrastructure like cloud computing, data processing, and online services. Officials say the site has already attracted major tech companies, often referred to as “hyperscalers.” These are large corporations that build and operate massive data centers to power everything from streaming services to cloud storage. “We do know that we have hyperscalers who are interested in the site,” Kendrick said. “That’s what we expect… we’ll have a hyperscaler that will come and locate here. That’s going to be some of the big names… Meta, Oracle, Amazon. However, Kendrick noted the exact type of data center, and which company might operate it, has not yet been finalized. She also noted that a lot of the push back associated with data centers often addresses AI data centers exclusively. Residents voicing their concerns about the proposed data center. From left to right: Troy Keller, Kayce Burdett, and Max Burnett. (Fionna Magee/ WRBL News 3) During Tuesday’s City Council meeting, several residents voiced concerns about the project’s potential long-term effects. Some pointed to environmental risks, including water usage and impacts to natural resources. “We’ve also seen communities be negatively impacted by damage to natural waterways,” said Columbus resident Kayce Burdett. “There is an overall growing concern with generating AI, especially in their use of clean water to maintain hardware temperature and data warehouses. “We simply need more information on the long-term impacts of data centers… It is too big of a decision to take lightly, and this decision could impact future generations.” Burdett continued. Others raised concerns about noise, lighting, and changes to the surrounding landscape. “Data centers do produce lots of sound, lots of light. It’s a big, paved area,” said Muscogee County resident Troy Keller. “That’s going to disturb families… Muscogee County families. I want to encourage you to think about adopting a 180-day moratorium on data centers.” Missy Kendrick addressing public concerns and answering questions from councilors. (Fionna Magee/WRBL News 3) Kendrick acknowledged that many of those concerns are valid but emphasized that modern data centers are different from earlier versions and would be subject to strict regulations. Kendrick said the project has already been evaluated for infrastructure capacity, including water and power. She also noted that developers, not taxpayers, would be responsible for funding infrastructure improvements, including an estimated $30 million to extend water and sewer service to the site. Officials added that environmental protections would apply, including regulations on wetlands, waterways, lighting, and noise. Despite the scale of the proposal, leaders stress that no final approvals have been made. The project must still go through multiple steps, including the creation and approval of a technology overlay zoning district , rezoning requests , a Development of Regional Impact (DRI) review , and additional public hearings and community input opportunities Kendrick has begun hosting public meetings to answer questions and gather feedback, with more planned in the coming weeks. The next public meeting is scheduled for March 6, 2026, from 2-4 p.m. at the C. E. “Red” McDaniel City Services Center. Add as preferred source on Google ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews Beyond the Forecast Beyond the Forecast: Ep. 1 – How we forecast Beyond the Forecast: Ep. 2 – Dixie Alley vs. Tornado … Beyond the Forecast: Ep. 3- Storm Preparedness Beyond the Forecast: Ep. 4 – Women in STEM! View All Beyond the Forecast Recent Columbus Forecast Updates Forecast: Saturday storms; Not helpful rain Rain chances go up Saturday, with a better chance … Preparing for Severe Weather: Supporting Columbus … Forecast: Drought Update; Latest on weekend rain Hazy start, sunny finish—rain returns this weekend Clouds this morning, sunshine later — rain relief … Warm Days Ahead Before Storms Return Next Week A warm-up today, rain on the horizon View All 7 Day Forecast BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks Don't Miss MCSD teacher accused of misdemeanor simple battery … Jeff Dantzler and Jon Stinchcomb to take over Georgia … Forecast: Saturday storms; Not helpful rain One man seriously injured in motor vehicle crash, … Brush fire sends smoke high on U.S. 80 in Phenix …