Developer withdraws rezoning for Catlett data center | News | fauquiernow.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Aerial view of Fauquier County zoning surrounding proposed Catlett Station Project site. Headwaters Site Development LLC Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Headwaters Site Development LLC has officially withdrawn its rezoning application for the proposed Catlett Station data center project. The project, which proposed constructing four two-story data centers on a 67-acre parcel at the intersection of Catlett Road and Gaskins Lane, required the county to rezone the land from industrial park to business park. In a letter dated July 15 and addressed to Fauquier County Chief of Planning Adam Shellenberger, Antonio Calabrese, a land use lawyer representing Headwaters, wrote, "On behalf of the Applicant for the Catlett Project, we hereby withdraw the application. After careful consideration, we have decided not to proceed with the rezoning and special exception at this time." The correspondence followed a July 3 letter in which Calabrese stated, "We are placing the application on hold as we consider alternative development options for the property and continue what we hope will be a productive dialogue with Staff, the Planning Commission, the Board of Supervisors and other interested parties." Shellenberger told FauquierNow that although the application has been withdrawn, Headwaters could still file another application in the future, which would restart the process. The project' faced community opposition and numerous concerns from county planners and planning commissioners. The application had been scheduled for a Planning Commission public hearing on July 18 and a Board of Supervisors public hearing on Aug. 8. This is a FauquierNow news alert. Check back for updates. News Headwaters introduces proffers for Catlett Station data center project amid community opposition Grace Schumacher, gschumacher@fauquiernow.com Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Grace Schumacher Author email Follow Grace Schumacher × Post a comment as anonymous Emoticons [smile] [beam] [wink] [sad] [cool] [innocent] [rolleyes] [whistling] [lol] [huh] [tongue] [love] [sleeping] [yawn] [unsure] [angry] [blink] [crying] [ohmy] [scared] [sleep] [sneaky] [tongue_smile] [thumbdown] [thumbup] [censored] [happybirthday] [ban] [spam] [offtopic] [batman] [ninja] [pirate] [alien] Comment Text Cancel Post comment × Report Cancel Report Abuse × Watch this discussion. Stop watching this discussion. Watch this discussion Get an email notification whenever someone contributes to the discussion Notifications from this discussion will be disabled. Cancel Start watching Stop watching (15) comments ccolvin Jul 21, 2024 10:32am As I read the comments thus far, I encourage people to refrain from one line, simplistic comments when it comes to the very complicated and nuanced discussion of data centers in Northern Virginia. After delving hundreds and hundreds of hours of my time in this past year, I can tell you that many people have much to learn about this mighty & powerful industry, and how they place data centers, no matter the negative impact to the people. Remember, it's all about the money! Please get all the facts. I too take great pride living in Fauquier County, and we do not want our county to have zero guardrails as we are seeing in neighboring counties. Too bad the state is not stepping into this "Wild West" type environment that is happening right here in No. VA. Remember that Fauquier County does have two approved data center locations. Fauquier County is certainly not anti-business. Those two locations, when developed, will be a 20-25% increase to the current county budget. I encourage everyone to take the Haymarket exit off I-66 and imagine if those massive centers were near your house. And the transmission lines to power were right through your neighborhood. Please read up on the estimated power bill increases that are anticipated will come to rate payers in the years to come. This unprecedented power demand is due to the unsustainable data center industry in No. VA. More power used here than the entire country of France. Where do you think all this energy will come from? And Prince William County will be doubling Loudon County's footprint in years to come, based on what's already approved. Please get all the facts. WATER. ENERGY. POWERLINES. NOISE. Report Add Reply 1690 family Jul 18, 2024 12:55am Like all Real Estate, location is the key. Do I want Data Centers? NO. But I would rather have them than more houses. Data Centers are a net gain for the county revenue stream, and properly placed will go virtually unnoticed. I don't think that the Catlett location was a good one, but I do believe there are other places in the county that are appropriate. Report Add Reply JPTL Jul 17, 2024 1:11pm Three years ago I moved from Montgomery County MD to Fauquier County. We went from being in the middle of everything, to a rural setting surrounded by farmland. We have chickens for the first time in our lives. We love everything about Fauquier County and hope that its social and business climate, natural beauty and rural character remains what has made it such a great place to live and visit. I didn't even consider Loudoun, Fairfax or Prince William Co. due to their zoning initiatives favorable to developers. Counties that welcome data centers, which I consider a blight in any mixed zoning environment. That's not a fact, that's opinion. Here's a fact: Fauquier County is a thriving community that honors its natural and cultural resources, agricultural heritage and rural landscape while building a sustainable economy and promoting outstanding services and growth within defined service districts. Not my opinion, but Fauquier County's Vision Statement. My thanks to the Planning Staff and Board of Supervisors who have done their job and have held up their commitment to Fauquier County's Vision Statement and have fought to uphold "honoring the county's natural and cultural resources, agricultural heritage and rural landscape." Please keep it up. Report Add Reply Jeff Allen Jul 17, 2024 3:25pm Agreed. The idea of a data center in the town of Warrenton is insane. That deal should have never been made let alone considered. Brandy Shaffer has a lot to answer for when she resigned to go work for Amazon. Report Add Reply Warrenton Resident Jul 17, 2024 3:29pm But groups fight growth in the service districts that would help the rest stay rural AND our taxes low! Report Add Reply LisaD Jul 16, 2024 8:32pm I think Fauquier county needs to decide what it’s future plan is. Data centers are good revenue that require no additional investments on roads, schools, public safety etc and need to be appropriately placed. Saying no to everything will result in more and more housing that will require more road improvements, schools and public safety facilities. This will raise taxes for everyone and further tax our stressed water and sewer systems Report Add Reply Jeff Allen Jul 17, 2024 9:20am It has been reported that by 2027 the existing data center will require at least 1 TRILLION gallons of water to operate. Where is that water going to come from? Since the DOD says that the information stored at data centers demand national security status, data centers will take priority over the needs of the community when it comes to water demand. Report Add Reply Warrenton Resident Jul 17, 2024 12:45pm Most use a closed loop system that once filled will rarely need to be topped off… Report JPTL Jul 17, 2024 12:48pm Thank you for providing the actual data, Jeff. The water and power needs to come from somewhere. Is the infrastructure in place to provide trillion