Land rezoning for Georgia data center recommended for approval - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Land rezoning for Georgia data center recommended for approval Campus will be around 1.42m sq ft July 02, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say A land rezoning proposal for a data center in Georgia has been recommended for approval by the Spalding County Planning Commission. The proposal will also require approval from the Board of Commissioners. If acquired, it would rezone a 127.45-acre land parcel from residential and agricultural use to manufacturing. Rezoning land for a data center in Spalding County requires a ‘special exception’ to be given, which was also recommended for approval by the Planning Commission. Spalding County data center final layout – Eberly & Associates, LLC Located in the city of Griffin, which is directly south of Atlanta, the parcel is bordered by High Falls Road, South McDonough Road, and Highway 16. The land currently belongs to Spalding Investments LLC. The company intends to build eight two-story data centers on the property: six of them will be 170,000 sq ft (15,793 sqm) each, and two of them will be 200,000 sq ft (18,580 sqm) each. Details about capacity were not provided. A power transfer station will also be built on the land. Spalding County Water Authority will provide water and sewage to the data center, and the facility intends to use a closed-loop water system. The end user of the facility is unknown. According to The Griffin Daily News , the developers estimate that the facility would have an estimated value of $1.5bn, with an annual ad valorem tax of $22.9m. Griffin will be home to another data center called Project Spalding , which will total 2.55 million square feet (236,900 sqm) upon completion in 2030. Atlanta, traditionally a Tier 2 market, has quickly become a major hotspot for data center development. DRI applications for more than a dozen campuses, totaling tens of millions of square feet across dozens of buildings, have been filed over the last couple of years. While many are in Atlanta’s traditional data center heartland around Fulton County, applications have been filed for projects across the region. More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 29 Oct 2025 TeraWulf and Fluidstack to develop Texas data center in Google-backed deal Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection HP SitePrint for data centers 16 Feb 2026 Fossefall targets data center in Harpefoss, Norway Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment Tags Atlanta Georgia Spalding County Spalding County Planning Commission Spalding Investments LLC Comments