Philadelphia Data Center - Pennsylvania Data Center Philadelphia Data Center Overview H5 Data Centers' Philadelphia data center totals 72,000 SF and is located in downtown Philadelphia. Customers can license cages and cabinets at this Tier III data center. H5 Data Centers' Philadelphia Data Center Brochure Get the Specs Downtown Philadelphia Location: 1500 Spring Garden St., Suite 520, Philadelphia, PA 19130 [ Map ] Fully Secure and Reliable Philadelphia Data Center Experience the Philadelphia Data Center for Yourself Schedule a Tour! Reliable and Compliant Philadelphia Data Center The Philadelphia data center undergoes rigorous annual audits for PCI-DSS, ISO 27001 and SOC2 compliance. Ideally suited for organizations with strict security and uptime requirements, the Philadelphia data center is a Tier III data center with access to global communications carriers and cloud services providers. Compliant Philadelphia Data Center Learn more about Data Center Compliance Philadelphia Data Center Attributes Power N+1 UPS power 7.5 MW Generator backup power 48-hour diesel runtime Security On-site security Dual-factor authentication controls Digital cameras monitored 24x7 Cooling Efficient direct expansion (DX) system N+1 cooling towers N+1 CRAHs Compliance SOC 2 compliant from A-LIGN ISO 27001 PCI-DSS compliance Why Philadelphia As the sixth-largest city in the US, Philadelphia is home to a number of information technology and biotech companies. With more than 80 higher education institutions in the greater Philadelphia region the area is a prominent research center as well. Financial services remain a key economic force for the city, with the historic Philadelphia Stock Exchange handling a large percentage of the Nasdaq options market. "These are the Data Centers of the future. They have the right solutions and pricing. They are nimble and responsive. Their team is super knowledgeable and accessible. I refer H5 Data Centers exclusively to my customers. My contacts there, Matt Donnelly and Danny Snight, are my 'go to' guys, to whom I owe huge kudos and thanks!!!" Joanne McDermott A Well-Connected Philadelphia Data Center H5 Data Centers' Philadelphia location has network options to reduce latency and increase end-user satisfaction. 12 on-net providers offer a full-range of services including dark fiber and 100 Gbps for organizations with hyperscale data transfer requirements. H5 Data Centers makes interconnection easy, cost-effective and reliable. Carrier-Neutral Colocation Get the Carrier List Easy Access to Major Hyperscale Public Clouds Digital transformation continues to be a top IT priority for organizations of all sizes. The Philadelphia data center makes hybrid IT easy by providing you with the ability to easily connect your data center infrastructure to the major public clouds like Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure and more. Cloud-Neutral Colocation Talk Hybrid IT with an H5 Data Centers' Expert Take The Next Step 01 Speak with an expert Talk with an expert to learn more about Philadelphia Colocation and its benefits. 02 Request an In-Person Tour Experience our Philadelphia colocation facility for yourself on a private tour. 03 Schedule a Virtual Tour Learn about H5 Data Centers Philadelphia from the any remote location. Latest Updates from H5 Data Centers Press Releases San Antonio Expansion The Carrier Hotel in Downtown San Antonio is Expanding with New Colocation Space, Increased Power Capacity and network options. Read More Data Center Resources Data Center Outsourcing H5 Data Centers research report - the most frequently cited benefits of data center outsourcing. Read More Location. Location. Location New Data Center Build With Power Availability The First Phase of the 42 MW Ashburn Development Will be Available in Q3 of 2024. Read More Contact Us H5 Data Centers 1500 Spring Garden St., Suite 520, Philadelphia, PA 19130