Fermi, Westinghouse to finalize licensing application for nuclear reactors at 11GW AI campus in Amarillo, Texas - DCD Home News The Mission Critical Power Channel Fermi, Westinghouse to finalize licensing application for nuclear reactors at 11GW AI campus in Amarillo, Texas Intend to deploy four AP1000 reactors at the HyperGrid campus August 25, 2025 By Zachary Skidmore Have your say Fermi America, the developer of the planned 11GW HyperGrid AI mega campus in Amarillo, Texas, has partnered with nuclear developer Westinghouse to finalize the Combined Operating License Application (COLA) to deploy four AP1000 reactors at the HyperGrid campus. AP1000 reactor – Westinghouse "Partnering with Westinghouse, the global leader behind the fully licensed AP1000 design, marks a critical milestone in our project execution," said Mesut Uzman, chief nuclear construction officer, Fermi America. "Their technical excellence and proven delivery give us confidence in achieving regulatory clearance and advancing our deployment strategy efficiently and safely." Under the terms of the agreement, the partners will complete the COLA documentation that was submitted by Fermi America to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) on June 17, 2025. In addition, they will support the review process for approval and work together to develop a long-term strategy for the site. "As the only fully licensed, construction-ready advanced modular reactor available today, the AP1000 technology is ready to deliver the power needed to unlock the full potential of next-generation artificial intelligence," added Dan Lipman, president, Energy Systems, Westinghouse. "We look forward to a productive partnership with Fermi America to bring these AP1000 units online at the pace needed to solidify America's energy dominance." The AP1000 is an advanced Generation III+ Pressurized Water Reactor (PWR). Each reactor has a net electrical output of approximately 1,100MWe to 1,117MWe. According to Westinghouse, it uses a simplified, two-loop PWR design with passive safety systems to enhance safety and efficiency. At present, there are six AP1000s in operation, with a further 14 under construction, and five more under contract. The last set of AP1000 units installed in the US was at the Vogtle nuclear plant in 2023, coming in $17 billion over budget and more than seven years behind schedule. The HyperGrid AI campus was announced back in June and will reportedly include “18 million sq ft (1.67 million sqm) of data centers and generate up to 11GW of IT capacity from natural gas, solar, wind, and clean nuclear energy.” In July , the company acquired more than 600MW of natural gas generation across two deals. Following this, the company signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Hyundai to deliver nuclear power to the project. Fermi was co-founded by former US Energy Secretary and Texas governor Rick Perry. The company said geotechnical work has already begun on the campus and is expected to deliver 1GW of power by the end of 2026. Details on how this project - which would likely require tens of billions of dollars - will be funded have not been shared. More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List How data center developers can prioritize renewable energy in new data center construction projects Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Rack Level The Next Power Metrics for AI Data Centers Flow batteries' role in the AI boom Episode Tech showcase: Smarter power distribution with BESS Tags Amarillo Fermi America HyperGrid AI Nuclear Regulatory Commission Texas Westinghouse Westinghouse AP1000 Comments