Plans for $1 billion Tri-State data center advance despite environmental, energy concerns Skip to main content Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install Now 62 ° Sat 76 ° Sun 73 ° Search Search User Icon Watch facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY Plans for $1 billion Tri-State data center advance despite environmental, energy concerns by Katie Amrhein, WKRC Tue, September 9, 2025 at 4:56 PM Updated Tue, September 9, 2025 at 6:49 PM 4 VIEW ALL PHOTOS Plans to build a $1 billion data center in Hamilton are advancing, but concerns are being raised about potential environmental impacts and increased energy bills. (Logistix Property Group/Wharton Equity Partners) Comment on this story 2 Comment Share story Share topics: Data center Hamilton Environmental concerns Energy consumption Logistix Property Group Job opportunities Renewable energy Construction plans HAMILTON, Ohio (WKRC) — Plans to build a $1 billion data center in Hamilton are advancing, but concerns are being raised about potential environmental impacts and increased energy bills. The city of Hamilton, in partnership with Logistix Property Group, is set to construct a 320,000-square-foot facility along University Boulevard, aiming to create a technology hub. Plans to build a $1 billion data center in Hamilton are advancing, but concerns are being raised about potential environmental impacts and increased energy bills. (WKRC, Logistix Property Group/Wharton Equity Partners) Doug Swain, president of Logistix, told the Business Courier that the facility is expected to bring more than 100 job opportunities to the area. Taina Pankiewicz of Environmental Solutions expressed concerns about the energy consumption of data centers. "Energy's got to come from a lot of different sources. It needs to come from natural gas, and it needs to come from hydroelectric, and it needs to come from solar and wind," Pankiewicz said. "There is no reason if we use all of them together that we can't have the energy that we need to power the next generation." While it remains unclear whether the center will use power from Hamilton's utilities or connect to another provider, Pankiewicz suggested that energy should come from diverse sources. "Energy has got to come from a lot of different sources. It needs to come from natural gas and it needs to come from hydroelectric and it needs to come from solar and wind," Pankiewicz said. "There is no reason if we use all of them together that we can't have the energy that we need to power the next generation." A Hamilton spokesperson stated that the data center will draw from the city-owned electric utility company, ensuring that rates for other customers will not increase. The city generates electricity with a natural gas plant and four hydroelectric generating stations. Comment with Bubbles READ THE COMMENTS (2) Groundbreaking for the data center is expected in January, with construction slated to begin in late spring. Trending Wanted man dead after SWAT situation in Cheviot A SWAT situation in Cheviot has ended with the death of a wanted man. Cheerleading coach sentenced to nearly 200 years in prison for molesting 10 underage girls A former cheerleading coach was sentenced to 174 years in prison after being convicted of molesting 10 underage girls for years. Woman convicted of stealing from union now charged with stealing from local business A woman who served time in prison for stealing $740,000 from a local union is now charged with stealing from a local business. Child fighting for her life after slushie found to be contaminated with meth, fentanyl The child was taken to a hospital for emergency treatment and remained in critical condition. Local cafe says it may close next month after being notified by its landlord The business has operated for 25 years. NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 6 Recording of Theetge hearing released, sharing former chief's side versus firing letter 8 Pep band Rockin' Redlegs brings high-energy performances to Reds games 7 Mobile aquarium in Hamilton helps educate people about local fish species 4 What will it take to get the NFL Draft in Cincinnati?