Planning Commission greenlights Crane DC's Forest Grove data center in northwest Oregon, again - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Planning Commission greenlights Crane DC's Forest Grove data center in northwest Oregon, again More than a year in the making September 09, 2024 By Georgia Butler Have your say The Planning Commission of Forest Grove in Oregon has approved a data center development. During a September 3 meeting, the commission voted 4-2 to greenlight an application by Crane Data Centers for a data center campus. – Crane Data Centers To be located at 2975 Heather Street in Forest Grove, west of Portland in Oregon, the data center campus is being developed by Crane and will include the phased construction of two buildings. The site covers approximately 35 acres, and the buildings are expected to each span 178,750 sq ft (16,606 sqm), with Building 1 reaching a height of 45 feet and Building 2 70 feet. Additional works will be site improvements including off-street parking, two stormwater quality facilities, an equipment yard, and landscaping The data center was originally approved by the Planning Division staff on July 31, but the owner of a property located north of the site appealed the decision. According to a report by the Forest Grove News Times , following the reaffirmed greenlight for the project, residents "stormed out" and criticized city leadership for the decision. Plans for the data center campus were first revealed in January 2023 , with reports at the time stating that the campus would have a capacity of 50MW at full build-out, with the potential to expand to more than 100MW. The project is being conducted in partnership with Principal Real Estate Investors and is seemingly Crane's first data center project. The company was launched in 2019. Its CEO, Matt Pfile, previously spent a dozen years at Google, with roles in data center energy and location strategy. The company aims to develop wholesale, powered shell, and build-to-suite hyperscale facilities, and lists planned projects across the US in California (Silicon Valley and Los Angeles), Arizona (Phoenix), Illinois (Chicago), Northern Virginia, Georgia, and Texas as well as Tokyo & Osaka in Japan, and Sydney and Melbourne in Australia. Data Center Map lists 111 data centers in Oregon, with the major markets being around Portland and Boardman. Hillsboro, just outside of Portland and east of Forest Grove, has Aligned Data Centers, Stack Infrastructure, Digital Realty, QTS, Rowan Digital Infrastructure, and Oracle among those operating data centers. More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 25 Nov 2025 AWS has more than 900 data centers - report Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 01 Dec 2025 Cityside Fiber begins build out in Laguna Hills, California Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Oregon Principal Real Estate Investors Portland Forest Grove Crane Data Centers Comments