Data center plans move forward in Shackelford County | Albany News Skip to main content By The Albany News. Time to read 2 minutes Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share through email Print a- a+ Published 9 months ago Last updated 9 months ago Read so far X Shackelford County Commissioners gave unanimous approval Monday to a proposal that could bring one of the most significant economic development projects in county history to life: a large-scale data center campus developed by Vantage Data Centers. Following a public hearing held during a special meeting of Commissioners Court, the county approved three key items: the creation of the Shackelford County Reinvestment Zone 2025-1, the acceptance of Vantage’s application for tax abatement, and the county’s intent to enter into a formal agreement with the company once land is purchased. Vantage Data Centers, a global data center operator with 36 campuses across five continents, is proposing a multi-phase development at the intersection of Highway 604 and Highway 351, covering approximately 1,200 acres. Construction is expected to begin later this year and continue through 2029. “We are not just developers, we are long-term operators and members of the communities where we build,” said Kaitlin Monaghan, director of public policy for Vantage’s North American division. “We plan to be here for the long haul.” According to Monaghan and Michael Falleroni, a principal with the consulting firm Ryan, LLC who assists Vantage’s data center team, the project is expected to create 250 full-time jobs with an annual payroll of $25 million. During peak construction, up to 6,500 workers could be on site. “A lot of these roles can be filled by folks with a high school diploma and/or a two-year degree,” Falleroni said. “They can earn solid, family-supporting wage.” To help connect local residents to these opportunities, the company has committed to hosting two job fairs—one by the end of this year and another in 2026. The company has agreed to a 10-year tax abatement arrangement in which it will make $10 million in annual payments to the county in lieu of property taxes. Shackelford County will have full discretion over how those funds are used, and could increase the County’s annual operating budget by nearly 200%. Additional community benefits include: •An annual $150,000 contribution during the first 10 years, directed to local charitable causes selected by the county; •Up to 10 college scholarships per year for Shackelford County students, continuing for the life of the project. •A commitment to hire locally and provide training opportunities. •Fire mitigation support and resources for local volunteer departments. Noise levels from the facility are not expected to interfere with nearby ranching or wildlife operations. “We’ve built in both remote and urban environments,” Monaghan said. “We understand the importance of being a good neighbor, and we want to make sure this project fits well within the community.” Unfortunately, because the project site falls within the Clyde ISD boundary, even though it is located in Shackelford County, Albany ISD will not receive any direct tax benefit from the development. However, Vantage has committed to offering up to 10 scholarships annually to students living anywhere in Shackelford County, regardless of school district. The project has not yet been finalized, as Vantage Data Centers must still purchase the land. However, company officials expressed optimism that the Shackelford County site is among the most competitive. “We feel strongly that this is the right location,” Monaghan said. “Now that we have this approval, we believe the remaining pieces will fall into place quickly.” The abatement agreement will be signed once the land transaction is complete. If that does not occur within 30 days, the county would need to reinitiate the process. Copyright ©2026 Albany News. All rights reserved.