Atlanta East Hyperscale Data Center Campus - Rockdale County, GA - DC BLOX Skip to content Atlanta East Hyperscale Data Center Campus – Rockdale County, GA (Coming Soon) AI-Ready Integrated Digital Infrastructure for Hyperscalers Schedule a Meeting Type: Hyperscale 4 Data Centers (Operational & in Development) 747,787 Square Feet 154 Critical MW (Committed & Planned) DC BLOX Hyperscale Solution DC BLOX is developing a state-of-the-art data center campus in Conyers, Georgia, approximately 24 miles east of downtown Atlanta. The Atlanta East campus is thoughtfully designed to support the region’s growing digital needs while emphasizing reliability, efficiency, and long-term community partnership. With its strong regional connectivity and commitment to responsible development, DC BLOX aims to strengthen local digital infrastructure in a way that benefits both residents and businesses across the area. Rockdale County Community Outreach DC BLOX is actively engaged in Rockdale County community life through various volunteer and charitable initiatives. We are deeply committed to ensuring our presence is economically and socially beneficial to the Rockdale County community. Rockdale Community Outreach Atlanta East Hyperscale Data Center Features Construction Network Mechanical Electrical / Power Certification / Security / Compliance Construction (1) 10MW and (3) 48MW buildings totaling 747,787 square feet 10MW power blocks built in 26,000SF data halls, supporting approximately 384w/SF 135 mph wind-rated construction On slab with 15′ ceiling height below grid Network Minimum (3) Diverse Points of Entry and Meet Me Rooms Dark fiber to 55/56 Marietta, 180 Peachtree and Myrtle Beach Mechanical High Efficiency magnetic bearing Air cooled chillers with thermal storage Interior vertical fan coil units flanking data halls (option for high efficiency DX thermosyphon refrigerant economizers) N+2 redundancy on chillers and N+5 on vertical fan coolers Provisions for future liquid cooling tie-ins Annualized design PUE of 1.3 at full load Electrical / Power 154 critical MW (completed and planned) Concurrently maintainable power line-ups High-density design to support high-performance computing Utility Provider: Georgia Power Certification / Security / Compliance SOC2 Type II, NIST 800-171 and HIPAA/HITRUST with a design that supports up-scope to more stringent security standards Video surveillance with remote monitoring Gated site access / bollards / secure lobby Man-trap / badge / biometric access Tier III basis of design with optional Uptime Institute certification Atlanta East Construction DC BLOX has officially broken ground on its new hyperscale-ready data center campus in Rockdale County, Georgia, just east of Atlanta. With site preparations underway as of September, 2024, construction on this expansive campus has begun to support hyperscale clients. atlanta-east-construction-server-setup atlanta-east-construction-servers ATL-East-building-10-09-25 Regional Dark Fiber Network DC BLOX has built the first high-capacity, low-latency dark fiber East-West route from Lithia Springs, GA to Myrtle Beach, SC. The route connects into Atlanta’s Internet Exchanges and passes through Augusta and Charleston to the Myrtle Beach cable landing station offering connectivity to regional and International destinations. DC BLOX is also building a dark fiber metro ring around Atlanta connecting into the Atlanta East and Atlanta West sites as well as to the East-West route. New dark fiber route options to suit specific customer needs are also available. Dark Fiber Network Map Location 1726 Farmer Road Conyers, Georgia 30012 Email: marketing@dcblox.com Phone: 877.590.1684 Atlanta East Next Steps DC BLOX has the design, construction, operations, networking, and security experience to meet the needs of today’s hyperscale and large-scale technology companies. Please complete the form to discuss this project with our experts. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. First Name * Last Name * Email * Phone * Company * Keep me informed about DC BLOX Keep me informed about DC BLOX Name Submit SMS Text Messaging By providing a telephone number and submitting this form you are consenting to be contacted by SMS text message. Message and data rates may apply. Message frequency may vary. Reply Help for more information. You can reply STOP to opt-out of further messaging. Read DC BLOX’s Privacy Policy . Corporate Headquarters: 1040 Crown Pointe Pkwy Suite 800 Atlanta, Georgia 30338 LinkedIn YouTube Facebook Instagram X Offerings Hyperscale Data Centers Cable Landing Stations Colocation Connectivity Dark Fiber Data Center Map Company About DC BLOX Leadership News Careers Partner Portal Service Portal Get in Touch Send a Message Request a Quote 877.590.1684 Terms of Use Acceptable Use Shared Responsibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Consent Preferences Consent Preferences