600MW data center campus proposed in Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 600MW data center campus proposed in Texas I Squared Capital-backed Priority Power looks to buy land in College Station City September 09, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A new 600MW data center campus could be coming to Texas. As reported by KBTX and KXXV , College Station City Council is set to meet this week to discuss a land acquisition offer for a potential data center campus. – Priority Power via College Station City Council Priority Power Management, LLC has made an offer to acquire approximately 200 acres of land along Corporate Parkway and Midtown Drive in the Midtown Business Park for around $30 million. The company reportedly aims to develop one or more data centers that could range from one to three stories, depending on available power after a study is conducted. A conceptual site suggests a potential full build-out of a 600MW campus featuring two two-story buildings as well as two 300MW substations. The site plans list the development as Project Aggie, via PPM Data LLC. City staff have recommended that the council approve the agreement. The city of College Station in Brazos County, home of the main campus of Texas A&M University, is located around 100 miles northwest of Houston and 100 miles east of Austin. The college's football team are known as The Aggies. Founded in 2001, I Squared Capital-backed Priority Power develops, engineers, procures, constructs, owns, and operates critical energy infrastructure assets such as private transmission and distribution networks, on-site electric generation and substations, and primary metering equipment. The company was acquired from Oaktree Capital Management and Ara Partners last year. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 10 Feb 2026 Biomass-powered data center planned outside Split, Croatia Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 03 Feb 2026 American Tower pauses plans for Edge data center in Indianapolis, Indiana Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Brazos County College Station I Squared Capital Midtown Business Park Priority Power Project Aggie Texas Comments