Tell NYSDEC to Take Lead Agency Status for Project Double Reed - NY Renews NY Renews Tell NYSDEC to Take Lead Agency Status for Monster Data Center at STAMP Tell NYSDEC to Take Lead Agency Status for Monster Data Center at STAMP Share STREAM US Data Centers and their corporate parent, Apollo Global Management, have submitted a new plan for a 2.2 million square foot, 500 megawatt data center at STAMP . We are outraged and horrified. We will fight this monster, and we will win. Read our press release here . And our fight starts now . Join us in uplifting the Tonawanda Seneca Nation’s demand : NYSDEC MUST take lead agency status for purposes of environmental review of the proposed data center. Send an email today. The good news? We’ve already defeated a data center at STAMP once before . And our movement continues to grow. More than 100 organizations and 500 individuals signed a recent letter to STREAM and Apollo stating their opposition to a data center at STAMP. Last week, we joined with new allies downstate at a press conference outside the New York Power Authority (NYPA) Board of Trustees Meeting to highlight the ongoing failure of Governor Hochul, NYPA CEO Justin Driscoll, and the NYPA Board of Trustees to uphold the stated demands of the Nation regarding allocations of Niagara River low-cost hydropower to industrial tenants at STAMP. Like all good struggles for justice, the fight to Rethink STAMP is long and full of disappointment. But we’re feeling uplifted by the steadfast support of so many wonderful allies. We are angry, and we are energized. Keep reading to learn more about why this action matters, then use our one-click tool to send an email today. NYSDEC needs to hear from YOU. When you enter your information to the right, here's the message that will be sent to key decisionmakers at NYSDEC, STREAM, Apollo Global Management, and GCEDC: Dear NYSDEC Commissioner Lefton, I am outraged and horrified by the new plan from STREAM US Data Centers and Apollo Global Management for a 2.2 million square foot, 500 megawatt data center at STAMP - immediately adjacent to the Tonawanda Seneca Nation's federally recognized Reservation Territory. In solidarity with the Tonawanda Seneca Nation, I call on the NYSDEC to take Lead Agency status for SEQR review of BUFA Project Double Reed at STAMP. Allowing GCEDC to remain Lead Agency for SEQR review is the definition of letting the fox guard the henhouse and would allow GCEDC to perpetuate further harm and continued violations of the Nation's treaty-protected rights to free use and enjoyment of its territory. Sincerely, ------------------------------ Local Residents Join with Organizations across New York to Express Outrage at New Plan for Monstrous Data Center at STAMP; Demand that the NYS Department of Environmental Conservation Take Over as Lead Agency for Environmental Review Process PUBLISHED December 16, 2025 - FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MEDIA CONTACT - Sarah Howard, 315-679-7678 and alliesoftsn@gmail.com ALABAMA, NEW YORK - Local residents are denouncing a sprawling data center complex proposed by STREAM US Data Centers and corporate parent Apollo Global Management at the troubled Western New York Science and Technology Advanced Manufacturing (STAMP) being developed by the Genesee County Economic Development Center (GCEDC) in Alabama, New York. Residents join the Tonawanda Seneca Nation in demanding that the NYS Department of Environmental Conservation take over from GCEDC as lead agency for purposes of environmental review of the new data center plan, which at 2.2 million square feet and 500 megawatts would be the largest in Western New York and more than twice as large as a plan proposed by STREAM and rejected by the community earlier this year. “As a resident of Genesee County, I am outraged by STREAM’s new and monstrous plan. I urge all my neighbors and community members to join me in echoing the Tonawanda Seneca Nation’s call for NYSDEC to take over as lead agency. GCEDC being in this role is the definition of the fox guarding the henhouse and would lead to even more harm and failed promises,” said Adrienne Yocina, a Pembroke resident who has been active in the Rethink STAMP campaign. Calls from the GLOW Region are bolstered by a recent letter , signed by more than 100 environmental, faith, human rights, and good governance groups and 500 individuals from across New York state, which urges STREAM and Apollo to abandon plans for a data center at STAMP. The letter, sent just prior to publication of plans for the new data center, expresses far-ranging concerns about the threats from such a facility to regional environmental quality, local quality of life, and the sovereignty and well-being of the federally recognized Tonawanda Seneca Nation, whose Reservation Territory abuts the parcel under consideration for a data center and whose Council of Chiefs has long expressed opposition to industrial development at STAMP. STREAM withdrew an earlier data center proposal after the Nation and the Sierra Club filed a lawsuit alleging violations of the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA). “Stream’s first proposal was met with powerful, unanimous opposition from local community members and the Tonawanda Seneca Nation - including nearly 800 written comments, 50 spoken comments made at a public hearing, and countless opinion pieces published in local papers. A proposal for an even larger project would be an insult to the many people who passionately detailed the unsuitability of this site for a data center project,” the letter asserts. “Locating a data center on the Nation’s unceded homelands, surrounded by a network of public protected lands and in the middle of a vast complex of thriving, biodiverse wetlands: this is an ecological travesty that also threatens the existence of the Nation.” STREAM’s new plan envisions a massive complex of three towering structures more than 100 feet tall, occupying more than 2.2 million square feet and using more than 500 megawatts of electricity per year. The facility would burn tens of thousands of gallons of diesel fuel and emit carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, benzene, and other hazardous air pollutants. 500 megawatts is roughly the amount of energy required to power 350,000-375,000 residential homes for a year. Allies of the Tonawanda Seneca Nation and others recently held a press conference outside the New York Power Authority (NYPA) Board of Trustees Meeting to highlight the ongoing failure of Governor Hochul, NYPA CEO Justin Driscoll, and the NYPA Board of Trustees to uphold the stated demands of the Nation regarding allocations of Niagara River low-cost hydropower to industrial tenants at STAMP. In an April 2025 letter , the Nation wrote that it “strongly opposes any allocation of low-cost hydropower to a data center at STAMP.” STREAM intends to take advantage of space that was previously part of a parcel owned by Plug Power, which paused construction on its green hydrogen manufacturing facility in 2023, leaving a gap in financing for the onsite electrical substation . Despite hundreds of millions in taxpayer subsidies, Plug Power never turned a profit and has never produced hydrogen or a single permanent job at STAMP. Project Double Reed’s backers claim the project would produce roughly 90 permanent jobs. STREAM’s plan also calls for onsite storage of 114,000 gallons of diesel fuel and discharge of 20,000 gallons of sanitary wastewater per day. Currently, GCEDC plans to store sanitary wastewater discharge from operations at STAMP in a large sewage tank located onsite. Wastewater would be transported daily by diesel truck to be dumped at a municipal wastewater facility in the Village of Oakfield. GCEDC’s STAMP Committee and Board of Directors will meet on Thursday, December 18 at 3:30pm at the MedTech Centre in Batavia . GCEDC is expected to formalize its intent to take lead agency status for environmental review of the data center complex under SEQRA, giving other agen