Edged reduces scope of planned data center campus in Council Bluffs, Iowa - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Edged reduces scope of planned data center campus in Council Bluffs, Iowa Company reduces size and height of planned facilities June 11, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say US data center firm Edged has reduced the scope of a planned campus in Iowa. As reported by 3NewsNow , the Council Bluffs city council this week unanimously passed an amendment reducing the size of a planned data center campus known as Project Lola. Edged changes specs for planned data center campus in Iowa – Edged via Council Bluffs City Council The project, from Edged, was approved a year ago but went largely unreported. At the time, the company had requested permission (via EDC Omaha Landco LLC) to develop two 80-foot tall buildings totaling 900,000 sq ft (83,610 sqm) and an on-site substation on undeveloped land southeast of the intersection of College Road and East Kanesville Boulevard/Highway 6. Edged has now reduced the floor area of each data center building from 450,000 square feet to 285,445 sq ft (26,520 sqm) and reduced the height of the data centers from 80 feet to 36 feet, three inches. It was also granted permission for an administrative building. Additionally, instead of the originally requested MidAmerican Energy substation, Edged is now planning to install two owner-operated substations, each serving one of the proposed data center buildings; a switchyard; and additional overhead electric facilities to service the proposed substations. The city staff and planning commission recommended approval of the request. Council Bluffs is a city on the state’s western border and close to Omaha, Nebraska. The Edged site was previously approved for a logistics park in 2021, but the land remained undeveloped. Edged is part of holding company Endeavour, which was set up by Aligned founder Jakob Carnemark. The company has data centers either operating or in development in Bilbao , Madrid, and Barcelona in Spain; Lisbon, Portugal; and across the US, including in Missouri , Arizona , Texas , Georgia , Iowa , Ohio , and Illinois . The company has one campus in Iowa in development just north of Des Moines in Ankeny. Reports that Edged was looking to develop a campus in the area surfaced last year , with plans for a two-building campus. The company officially announced plans for the Des Moines campus in March and broke ground on the site in May . Set on 17 acres at 2701 Southeast 90th Street, the DSM01-1 site will offer 13MW of capacity across 100,000 sq ft (9290 sqm). Edged has yet to make any public announcement about developing in Council Bluffs. Edged's chief operating officer, Mitch Fonseca, told DCD : "We recently made adjustments to the project size and building height to align with our customer’s specific requirements and to optimize the site’s design and overall density. These updates allow us to deliver a highly efficient, purpose-built solution while maintaining the same 200MW capacity for the campus." He continued: "Edged is committed to designing infrastructure that meets the unique needs of our partners while ensuring top-tier performance and sustainability. We’re excited about the progress in Council Bluffs and look forward to advancing this project." Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection The Construction Supplement 27 Nov 2025 Netwise to expand East London data center site Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 19 Nov 2025 Element Critical breaks ground on 10MW data center expansion in Houston, Texas Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Council Bluffs Edged Edged Data Centers Edged Energy Iowa Pottawattamie County Project Lola Comments