Nebius opens the first availability zone in the US We will become the first colocation tenant in the Kansas City data center owned by our partner Patmos , which provides cloud, high-density compute, software and data center solutions. We selected Patmos for its demonstrated agility and expertise in phased construction, delivering custom data center buildouts faster than the industry standard. The first phase of construction includes extensive infrastructure upgrades: backups, generators and cage space, tailored to support our demanding workload requirements. Patmos recently repurposed the facility, converting the iconic Kansas City Star printing press to a modern AI data center. The colocation can be expanded from an initial 5 MW up to 40 MW, or about 35 thousand GPUs, at full potential capacity. The new availability zone will allow us to meet the demands of US-based AI companies even better. To work more efficiently with them and for the convenience of our growing team, we also recently announced the opening of three offices across the country. This comes just as the first client workloads are being deployed in our Paris colocation data center, the one we unveiled less than two months ago. Along with our own DC in Finland, whose capacity we’re tripling , Nebius will have three availability zones, and this is just the beginning. We will continue building AI infrastructure on both sides of the Atlantic in 2025 and beyond. Explore Nebius Sign up ​ Docs ​ Support ​ Key services Compute Cloud ​ Managed Kubernetes ​ Managed MLflow ​ Managed Spark ​ Nebius team See also Nebius opens offices in the US Supporting our ambitious growth plans in the US market, we now have dedicated office spaces in San Francisco, Dallas and New York. As the Nebius team expands, our employees in these cities now have a place to hold meetings, spend time with colleagues and take care of growing the business. November 13, 2024 1 min to read Nebius launches its first availability zone in France Our Paris availability zone will be one of the first in Europe to offer NVIDIA H200 Tensor Core GPUs . This is just the beginning as we continue to expand our operational capacity to meet fast-growing demand for high-quality infrastructure and the latest GPUs from AI builders around the world. September 25, 2024 2 mins to read Sign in to save this post Sign In