Oxford Quantum Circuits deploys quantum computer at quantum AI data center in New York City - DCD Home News The Compute, Storage & Networking Channel Oxford Quantum Circuits deploys quantum computer at quantum AI data center in New York City System will be integrated with Nvidia Grace Hopper superchip September 16, 2025 By Charlotte Trueman Have your say Oxford Quantum Circuits (OQC) has deployed New York City’s first quantum computer. Housed in a quantum-AI data center run by Digital Realty in the Google building in Chelsea, the system will be combined with an Nvidia Grace Hopper Superchip. The data center at 111 8th Avenue, New York City, is a carrier hotel acquired by Google in 2010 in a deal reported to be worth around $1.8 billion. – Oxford Quantum Circuits Bloomberg reported that OQC CEO Gerald Mullally declined to confirm the exact cost of the system, but said he expected the company to spend “tens of millions of dollars” over the next three to five years, partly on the purchase of Nvidia chips to integrate into the system. OQC plans to upgrade the quantum computer to a more powerful system by 2028. The news outlet added that the system’s installation is expected to be one of a number of UK-US partnerships set to be announced during Donald Trump’s state visit to the UK. In a separate interview with The Times , Mullally said that the facility was “the industry’s first quantum AI data center,” adding that it is expected to be open to select customers this year before being made available to the wider market in 2026. “[The center] is to power the next era of AI. We are going to be accelerating AI training and augmenting inference — this is really how quantum can power the future of AI,” Mullally said. "Banks are really interested in this, and we are working with leading global players. We are embedding it within their secure infrastructure in New York so they can access it in the same way they access the rest of their computing infrastructure.” Founded in 2017, OQC spun out of the University of Oxford and uses its own "Coaxmon" 3D architecture, rather than 2D circuits, to simplify fabrication and improve the coherence of quantum systems. The company raised $40.5 million via a Series A funding round in 2022 and an additional $100m from a Series B round in 2024. OQC claims to be the only organization to deploy quantum computers directly into commercial data centers. More in HPC & Quantum 30 Jan 2026 Atos relaunches its AI, HPC, and quantum group under Bull brand 30 Mar 2026 Two research institutions partner for new HPC data center in Berlin, Germany 26 Jan 2026 IQM Quantum Computer scraps co-CEO model, appoints co-founder Jan Goetz as sole leader More in North America North America data center report 21 Mar 2026 DHL expands North American logistics infrastructure to meet data center demand Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Gerald Mullally Grace Hopper Superchips New York New York City Nvidia Oxford Quantum Circuits Quantum Computing Comments