Sustainable Data Centers - Corscale Skip to main content Innovate Develop Scale Corscale Data Centers specializes in developing, owning, and operating energy-efficient, sustainable data centers that enable our hyperscale customers to reliably innovate the digital world. Company The Corscale Advantage Vertically integrated with our investment partner, Affinius Capital, Corscale designs, builds, and operates sustainable, high-density data centers for some of the largest and most advanced technology companies in the world. Our highly experienced data center professionals help hyperscale customers gain a competitive advantage in delivering trusted cloud and AI services. Learn More Experience Designed for the Future With a 40+ year history of developing and operating complicated, large-scale projects for some of the world’s most innovative clients, Corscale utilizes a highly collaborative, proven process to engage its clients, resulting in a high degree of client satisfaction and on-time, on-budget delivery. Learn more People A Wealth of Data Center Experience Our team’s experience developing sustainable high-density data centers allows us to deliver secure, reliable, and scalable facilities that house the infrastructure running today’s digital economy. Combined, our team has participated in the construction of over 125 data centers in the past decade. Meet the team Sustainability Innovative Solutions Corscale demonstrates its commitment to sustainability through various initiatives, including carbon tracking, power optimization, water conservation, the use of green materials, and the pursuit of environmental certifications. Learn More A Focus on the U.S. and Europe N. Virginia N. Virginia London London Amsterdam Amsterdam Texas Atlanta Chicago Office–Phoenix Office – Amsterdam Office – London Office – NY Office – Washington, DC Office – Miami Office – Atlanta Office – Denver Office – Chicago Office – San Antonio Office – Houston Office – Dallas Office – LA Office – SF Office – Seattle Current Data Center Developments Future Data Center Developments Corscale/Affinius Capital offices Gainesville Crossing Gainesville, VA, USA Gainesville Crossing Campus is a 130-acre master-planned campus for secure, sustainable, and scalable growth. This multi-phase project in a premier location outside of Washington DC encompasses 2.3 million square feet with 1.1 million square feet of data center capacity powered by Dominion. 326 MW power capacity 130 acre campus 350+ watts per SF Kincora VA2 Kincora, VA, USA Located in the Data Center Alley in Northern Virginia with immediate access to State Routes 7 and 28. Kincora Data Center is planned as a single, 80 MW, 500,000-square-foot building. 80 MW critical capacity 24 acre campus 650 watts per SF Court Lane Iver, UK Located west of London, the planned data center at Court Lane is estimated to bring in approximately 90 skilled workers and create 171 local service jobs. The design integrates advanced technology with heritage-inspired architecture, including the restoration of the Farmhouse on site. It will also incorporate sustainable features such as water conservation and biodiversity enhancement, reflecting Corscale’s commitment to environmental responsibility and long-term vision. 103 MW power capacity On Site substation fed by National Grid Access to London Orbital Motorway (M25) The Latest News Press Release Erik Draaisma Joins Corscale as Executive Vice President, Business Development Houston, TX – (June 12, 2025) – Corscale Data Centers is pleased to announce the hiring of Erik Draaisma as Executive Vice President of Business Development… Learn more Press Release Corscale Data Centers and Affinius Capital Announce Strategic Partnership with e2Companies Corscale plans to deploy e2Companies’ R3Di® System for on-site power generation, energy storage, and distribution in… Learn more White Paper 2025 Powering the AI and Cloud Revolution Cloud computing and AI are driving unprecedented data center demand, with U.S. absorption set to exceed 7,300 MW in 2024. Yet power bottlenecks and scarce land have pushed vacancy rates to just 1.7%. Read the joint white paper to discover how strategic adaptability is creating new opportunities. Learn more Press Release Corscale is under construction on its third building at Gainesville Crossing Campus The multi-building project will encompass more than 2.3 million square feet and 326 MWs of power on its 130-acre campus in Northern Virginia Gainesville, VA – Corscale, an affiliate of… Learn more