Vantage plots 1.4GW data center campus in Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Vantage plots 1.4GW data center campus in Texas Company aims to develop ten-building campus northeast of Abilene August 19, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Vantage Data Centers is expanding in Texas with a new gigawatt-scale campus outside Abilene. The company this week announced plans to develop a 1.4GW data center campus in Shackelford County, Texas. – Vantage Data Centers Situated on 1,200 acres, Vantage’s Frontier campus is set to be the largest across its global portfolio, with the project set to be its biggest investment to date, totaling more than $25 billion. The campus will be home to 10 data centers totaling 3.7 million sq ft (343,741 sqm), offering rack densities of more than 250kW. Construction on the campus has already begun, with the first building scheduled for delivery in the second half of 2026. The Frontier campus will offer liquid cooling and utilize a closed-loop chiller system, which requires minimal water for cooling. Vantage will be pursuing LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification for the campus. The company will have three Meet-Me-Rooms (MMRs) and one point of entry per building. “Texas has become a critical and strategic market for AI providers. In particular, the launch of our Frontier campus with 1.4GW of GPU compute capacity marks a watershed moment for Vantage as we deliver on our promise to meet the unprecedented requirements of our customers,” said Dana Adams, president of North America, at Vantage Data Centers. “This investment in Texas will be a significant economic growth driver for the area as we rapidly deploy the digital infrastructure needed to support AI applications. We look forward to being part of such a welcoming and proud community.” Shackleford County is some 125 miles west of Fort Worth, close to Abilene, where Crusoe is developing a large campus for Oracle and OpenAI. Albany, the biggest city in the county, is located some 35 miles northeast of Abilene. “Everything is bigger in Texas, and that includes innovation and technology,” said Governor Greg Abbott. “Vantage Data Centers’ $25 billion investment to build a new data center campus will help create thousands of good-paying jobs for Texans and bring revenue to the local and state economies. Partnering with job-creating and innovative businesses like Vantage, Texas will continue to be a national and global leader in this emerging frontier.” News that Vantage was targeting a large campus in Texas surfaced in July , with the company acknowledging but not revealing more details. At the time, the company was said to be planning development at the intersection of Highway 604 and Highway 351. “Frontier is an apt name for the Vantage Data Centers’ campus and a palpable recognition of the history and mindset still present in our region and particularly Shackelford County,” said John Viertel, county judge for Shackelford County. “We look forward to the many years of working with Vantage as they become involved with local initiatives, providing educational and job opportunities for our children and ourselves, contributing significantly to the financial upkeep and betterment of our local communities, all while providing a valuable service and product in the digital brave new world.” DigitalBridge and Silver Lake-backed Vantage operates or is developing data centers across the US, including in Ohio, Georgia, Texas, California, Virginia, Arizona, Indiana, Nevada, Wisconsin, and Washington. Subscribe to our daily newsletters Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter series. More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 18 Mar 2026 Two data center projects debated for 11 hours at planning meeting in Franklin County, Missouri Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 19 Mar 2026 Fujikura to triple optical fiber production as part of $2bn investment Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Shackelford County Texas Vantage Vantage Data Centers Comments