300 acres of land in Preble County, Ohio, could host data center campus - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 300 acres of land in Preble County, Ohio, could host data center campus Rezoning request submitted, but faces public opposition September 03, 2025 By Matthew Gooding Have your say A 300-acre data center campus could be coming to Ohio’s Miami Valley. Developer PRSM has applied to rezone two parcels of land totalling 300 acres, located south of the I-70 highway in Preble County, from agricultural to limited industrial use, facilitating the construction of data centers. Will Ohio's Preble County welcome a new data center campus? – Getty Images PRSM hopes to market the sites to hyperscale clients. A public meeting was held on Tuesday in Preble, where residents queued up to voice their opinions on the development. Local media outlet 2 News reported that some brought garden chairs into the meeting room to create more seating space. Those who spoke at the meeting voiced concerns that a data center development could cause energy bills in the area to rise, and may impact the local water supply. In comments to 2 News, PRSM president Patrick Scanlon said the data center would bring jobs to the region, as well as funding local schools and boosting tax revenue in Preble County. “We’ll hopefully be able to show that it will deliver on all the values promised,” Scanlon said, adding “if we can’t find the right buyer, we’ll rezone to agriculture.” The rezoning request will return for consideration by Preble County’s Board of Commissioners at a meeting on October 1. According to its website , PRSM is a land development company specializing in digital infrastructure. It was set up in 2022 and is headquartered in Arlington, Virginia. It was set up in 2022 and claims to be pursuing hyperscale data center developments in five US states, including Ohio. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 24 Mar 2026 Leon Capital-backed firm launches new European data center developer Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in North America Schneider Electric Innovation Summit 09 Jan 2026 Treaty Oak closes financing and begins construction on two Meta-tied solar projects in Louisiana Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Miami Valley Ohio PRSM Preble County Comments