DC Blox acquires 27 acres in South Carolina for 45MW data center campus - DCD Home News Construction & Site Selection DC Blox acquires 27 acres in South Carolina for 45MW data center campus Company acquires land in Berkeley County from local utility Santee Cooper September 28, 2023 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say US colocation provider DC Blox has acquired land in South Carolina for a new data center campus. The company this week said it recently completed the purchase of 27.5 acres in Berkeley County from local utility Santee Cooper, and plans to build a data center campus on the plot. – DC Blox The preliminary plan for the site, located in the Camp Hall commerce park, includes four buildings totaling approximately 200,000 square feet (18,580 sqm) of space and 45MW of planned power, with build-to-suit options available. “DC Blox has quickly positioned itself to serve the rapidly growing needs for digital infrastructure in the Southeast,” said Jeff Uphues, DC Blox CEO. "Our new Camp Hall location will be an attractive data center location for hyperscalers who have an immediate need for space and power to support AI/ML and other fast-growing applications. In addition, the facility will offer access to high-capacity fiber to service their customers within the region as well as globally.” The Camp Hall business park is located north of the city of Charleston, and west of Moncks Corner where Google operates a data center site. Santee Cooper will provide power to the campus; the companies didn’t disclose a land acquisition price. Timelines for data center development haven’t been shared. “Camp Hall is a strategic location for DC Blox, which will encourage and support technology-driven industries and quality jobs in the Berkeley County and greater Charleston area,” said Jimmy Staton, Santee Cooper President and CEO. “We are happy to welcome DC Blox to Camp Hall and the Santee Cooper family.” The project will be the third data center the company has developed in South Carolina. The company operates a data center in Greenville is about to open a new data center and cable landing station in Myrtle Beach. The company operates facilities at four other locations across Atlanta, Georgia; Birmingham and Huntsville, Alabama; and Chattanooga, Tennessee. It is planning another facility in High Point, North Carolina. “Camp Hall is proving to be a prime location for industrial development and investment in our County,” said Berkeley County Supervisor Johnny Cribb. “As the need for digital infrastructure becomes increasingly paramount in today’s world, we are happy to welcome DC Blox to our area. We are confident this company’s new data center will serve as a critical asset for the information technology sector in our County, region, and beyond.” More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 13 Apr 2026 20MW data center proposed at former Eon office site in Nottinghamshire, UK Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in Colocation & Wholesale NTT Global Data Centers Guide to India data center expansion 18 Nov 2025 Schneider Electric debuts platform to unify data center energy and building management systems 29 Oct 2025 Fermi America inks reactor supply and design deals for up to 11GW data center campus in Amarillo, Texas Tags Camp Hall commerce park Santee Cooper Charleston Berkeley County South Carolina DC Blox Comments