WhiteFiber plans $1 billion AI campus in Madison | wfmynews2.com Breaking News More ( ) » Local News $1 billion AI data center coming to Madison, Rockingham County officials say The company aims to transform the site into a “state-of-the-art high-performance” computing and AI data center campus. To stream WFMY News 2 on your phone, you need the WFMY News 2 app. Download the WFMY News 2 app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video MADISON, N.C. — An artificial intelligence company plans to transform the former Unifi site in Madison for a $1 billion project, according to Rockingham County officials. WhiteFiber Inc., the AI division of Bit Digital, has acquired the 96-acre, approximately 1 million-square-foot former industrial property, officials said. The company aims to transform the site into a “state-of-the-art high-performance” computing and AI data center campus. “The Town of Madison is excited to have WhiteFiber invest in our community,” said Madison Mayor William Phillips. “Transforming the former Unifi facility into a state-of-the-art AI data center campus is a remarkable step forward for our local economy.” County officials said the facility has immediate access to power. WhiteFiber has secured a capacity agreement with a local utility for 99 megawatts, with 24 MW expected to come online by the end of 2025. A preliminary study indicates the site could eventually support up to 200 MW. The company is paying $45 million in cash for the property, officials said. “We are thrilled to welcome WhiteFiber to our community,” said Kevin Berger, Chair of the Rockingham County Board of Commissioners. “Their planned investment of over $1 billion will be a tremendous boost to the County and Town of Madison, and we welcome the creation of more than 60 jobs with an average wage of $67,000.” Download WFMY+ on your TV and watch for free. Download the WFMY News 2 mobile app. Subscribe to our newsletter. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out