Microsoft reveals new datacenter for Atlanta, will be world’s first ‘AI super factory’ Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella announced Wednesday that the company was unveiling a new, ‘purpose-built’ data center in Atlanta. The data center first started operations in October. Known as Fairwater 2, the Atlanta facility will be paired and connected with the first Fairwater site in Wisconsin. Nadella said in his announcement that the move would be part of a “broader Azure footprint to create the world’s first AI superfactory” and was an example of building infrastructure that “can serve any workload, anywhere,” no matter what the need is. [DOWNLOAD: Free WSB-TV News app for alerts as news breaks ] The tech giant said to meet the “unprecedented demand for AI computing,” it had reinvented how it approached data center design. Advertisement Advertisement The Fairwater facilities are “a departure from the traditional cloud data center model and uses a single flat network,” integrating hundreds of graphics cards to process data as a massive supercomputer. TRENDING STORIES: Data center set to use 6 water towers worth of water per day in Georgia Anthropic announces $50B investment in new US data centers to meet AI demand DeKalb County to hold town hall on proposed data center regulations The new facility designs used by Microsoft are also intended for training future models and multiple different workloads with diverse requirements. “A traditional datacenter is designed to run millions of separate applications for multiple customers,” Alistair Speirs, Microsoft general manager focusing on Azure infrastructure, said in a statement. “The reason we call this an AI superfactory is it’s running one complex job across millions of pieces of hardware. And it’s not just a single site training an AI model, it’s a network of sites supporting that one job.” Advertisement Advertisement Microsoft said the plants feature liquid-based cooling, individualized power to each server rack, where the data is stored and computed, as well as facility-wide cooling systems to ensure long-term viability, while also being more energy efficient. Another feature of the Atlanta Fairwater facility’s design is its approach to resource management. Microsoft officials said the advanced liquid cooling system “consumes almost zero water in its operations” while maximizing the amount of processing chips it can host and use. “We are pushing the envelope in serving this compute with cost-efficient, reliable power. The Atlanta site was selected with resilient utility power in mind and is capable of achieving 4×9 availability at 3×9 cost,” the company said in a statement. “By securing highly available grid power, we can also forgo traditional resiliency approaches for the GPU fleet (such as on-site generation, UPS systems and dual-corded distribution), driving cost savings for customers and faster time-to-market for Microsoft.” [SIGN UP: WSB-TV Daily Headlines Newsletter ] View comments About our ads Advertisement Advertisement Recommended articles How much does a VPN cost? The cost of a VPN service can be hard to nail down. Learn what you'll actually pay and how to spot a good price. Yahoo Tech Our favorite security cameras keep tabs on your home — and start at under $40 Here's a quick guide for anyone looking to add a smart security camera to their home. We tested a slew and like these best for first-timers. Yahoo Tech Tech layoffs 2026: Over 96,000 employees have been laid off this year across Oracle, Amazon, Meta, Disney, Snap and more We've just entered the second quarter of the year, but we've already seen tens of thousands of layoffs across the tech industry — here's what we know. Yahoo Tech The best small speakers you can buy for home and travel in 2026, tested and reviewed Six cheap, compact, portable Bluetooth speakers that sound bigger and better than you think. Yahoo Tech Gadgets that make great Mother's Day gifts, starting at only $35 Give mom a gift she'll love and use long after the holiday is over. Yahoo Tech Score Anker deals with a 20% off code for some of our favorite fast chargers Anker gave us a 20% off code to share with Yahoo Tech readers for our favorite charging gear. Yahoo Tech Sony cuts $200 off PS5 Fortnite bundle, making this the cheapest way to snag a console Sony's PS5 price hikes were painful, but its current bundle discount offers an affordable way to save $200 on a console. Yahoo Tech How to cancel your Netflix subscription If you're trying to cut back on expenses, here's how to cancel your Netflix subscription or find a better deal. Yahoo Tech How to cancel your Disney+ and Hulu bundle subscription If you're trying to cut back on expenses, here's how to cancel Disney+ and Hulu. Yahoo Tech How to cancel your HBO Max subscription If you're trying to cut back on expenses, here's how to cancel HBO Max. Yahoo Tech How to cancel your Apple TV subscription Looking to scale back on your streaming costs? Here's how to cancel Apple TV. Yahoo Tech The best MagSafe accessories for 2026: Teach your iPhone new tricks There's a near-infinite array of MagSafe accessories out there. We tested some of the best. Yahoo Tech The best streaming services in 2026 for TV, movies, sports and more, tested and reviewed Find the streaming service that delivers more of what you love to watch — and fits your budget, too. Yahoo Tech Amazon Ember Artline TV review: Museum in your living room Amazon's first entry into the art-TV space may give Samsung Frame shoppers something to think about. Yahoo Tech Govee introduces its first outdoor solar string lights to zhuzh up your yard Govee's first ever solar-powered outdoor lights come with 8 bulbs and a 6W solar panel for $100. Yahoo Tech Do you still need a Kindle in 2026 — or is an iPad good enough? The all-in-one appeal of the iPad is real, but when it comes to reading, simplicity still has a serious edge. Yahoo Tech Is now a good time to buy Apple AirPods? Here's whether you should splurge or wait Whether you're eyeing the Pro 3s, the new flashy Max 2 or more traditional 'pods, we're breaking down whether that deal is really a deal. Yahoo Tech Apple deals worth grabbing this week: $99 AirPods are back, a discount on AirPods Max 2 and the new MacBook Air is up to $150 off Other highlights include discounts on Apple Watches and the just-released iPad Air. Yahoo Tech The best gaming handhelds for 2026 We've played around with tons of handheld gaming consoles and portable PCs to find the ones that stand out the most. Yahoo Tech AirPods Pro 3 fall to $200 again — a buck shy of the best price we've seen The latest model of these iconic earbuds cancels out twice as much noise as the previous version and even offers live translation. Yahoo Tech More than 100,000 Yahoo readers have snapped up this $10 surge protector — here's why Five outlets, plus another four USB ports means your days searching for a place to plug in are over. Yahoo Tech Is now a good time to buy an Apple iPad? Here's whether you should buy or wait While the Air just hit its best price ever, only some of Apple's tablet lineup is seeing noteworthy discounts. Yahoo Tech Is now a good time to buy a MacBook? Here's whether you should buy or wait The new M5 Air just saw a giant price drop, but not every model is a good deal — and one is a great buy even not on sale. Yahoo Tech How to cancel Private Internet Access and get a refund This VPN won't be perfect for everyone. Here's how to break up with it amicably. Yahoo Tech Private Internet Access VPN review: It's improving, but not great yet A secure VPN with over 150 location choices is undone by long connection lags. Yahoo Tech