3.7 million sq ft data center campus gets initial OK from officials in Florida - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 3.7 million sq ft data center campus gets initial OK from officials in Florida Project Tango coming to West Palm Beach December 08, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A new data center project is being planned in the West Palm Beach area of Florida. As noted by local press , investment firm PBA Holdings has filed plans with Palm Beach County to develop a data center campus in Loxahatchee known as Project Tango . The Palm Beach County zoning commission recommended approval of the plans last week. – Google Maps Project Tango, located on 202 acres approximately 3.7 miles (5.9km) west of Seminole Pratt Whitney Road on the North side of Southern Boulevard, could total 3.69 million sq ft (342,810 sqm) at full build-out. Further details haven’t been shared. Loxahatchee is an unincorporated community in Palm Beach County, approximately 17 miles (27km) west of West Palm Beach. The site is located close to the Palm Beach Aggregates rock pits at 20-Mile Bend and Florida Power & Light’s West County Energy Center. Launched in 2009, the natural gas power plant totals 1.25GW and is reportedly the largest natural gas plant site in the US. The site currently has zoning for 2 million sq ft (185,806 sqm) of industrial space, including warehouse or data centers. That zoning request from PBA Holdings was OK’d by local officials back in 2016 . A Change.org petition against the project has 2,145 signatures at the time of writing. The proposed campus' proximity to residential areas is one of the issues raised. "The sheer scale of this project... poses a substantial threat to the health, safety, and well-being of residents," the petition said. "We urge the Palm Beach County Commission to carefully consider these impacts and explore alternative locations that do not impose such risks on residential communities and sensitive natural areas. " Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection North America data center report: Year-end 2025 10 Nov 2025 Cloud gaming firm partners with Polish real estate company for data center build-out Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 06 Apr 2026 Flagstar Bank consolidates six data centers into two Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Florida Loxahatchee PBA Holdings Palm Beach Palm Beach County Project Tango West Palm Beach Comments