Data center proposal for Blakely construction withdrawn | wnep.com Breaking News More ( ) » Lackawanna County Data center developer withdraws proposal for Blakely construction A company proposing to develop a data center in Blakely withdrew its application, citing pushback from residents and the borough not providing an additional meeting. To stream WNEP on your phone, you need the WNEP app. Download the WNEP app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video BLAKELY, Pa. — It's an issue several communities throughout Northeastern Pennsylvania are fighting hard against, the construction of data centers. In the borough of Blakely , a data center was proposed to be built right by people's homes, and almost immediately folks banded together. "I invited the whole neighborhood over to my yard, just to have our first meeting, and we just started meeting from there, we did a lot of research, a lot of writing, a lot of phone calls, to just get all of our facts together that we could,” said Brandy Sokoloski of Peckville. Partly because of that research, the writing, the phone calls and a petition that had roughly 800 signatures. This grassroots group from Blakely did what people in many communities are trying to do. They helped stop a data center from being built. "I’d get up 3:00 a.m., pouring over notes, researching data centers from other states, other areas,” said Erin Tully of Blakely. The developers of the project said in a statement that after hearing public concerns about their data center proposal, the developers created three separate options for the data center. They then wanted an additional public informational meeting to present the options to the public. They say because the borough rejected that additional informational meeting, they're now not moving forward with the project. "We were giving them everything that we had to give them, they had one informational meeting, and we were giving them that public hearing in front of the entire town that would have also been broadcasted by zoom,” said Christopher Paone, the borough manager of Blakely. Now that the developer withdrew their data center application, folks in Blakely say their hard work has paid off. "I am relieved, I am relieved, and once again I am thankful, I am thankful,” said Tully. "It definitely was a team effort, we could not have done what we did if it wasn't all of us pulling together, as a team, working together, there's no I in team,” said Melinda Harhut of Peckville. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out