Google files site plan for data center, moves forward with ‘Project Peanut’ in Chesterfield | WRIC ABC 8News Skip to content by: Jessie Nguyen Posted: Nov 11, 2025 / 10:08 PM EST Updated: Nov 11, 2025 / 10:08 PM EST SHARE CHESTERFIELD COUNTY, Va. (WRIC) — Google is moving forward with its plan for a data center campus in Chesterfield County despite mixed reactions from residents and county leaders. The tech giant filed its site plan for nearly 856,000 square feet in data facilities called “Project Peanut” on Sunday, Nov. 9. The data center campus will be built on a 300-acre site at 2700 Bermuda Hundred Road next to Meadowville Technology Park, according to the site plan. The project is part of Google’s $9 billion investment in Virginia’s artificial intelligence infrastructure through the end of 2026. This also includes the expansion of existing data facilities in Loudoun and Prince William Counties, per a release from Gov. Glenn Youngkin’s office. Per the release, Google has qualified for Virginia’s data center sales and use tax exemptions , meaning the company met the minimum investment and job requirements within the data center’s locality. According to filings with Chesterfield, the multiphase project will include three data center buildings — each about 285,000 square feet. There will be 345 parking spaces on campus. Project Peanut’s site plan submitted to Chesterfield County. (Photo: Chesterfield County) As reported by Richmond BizSense , Google allegedly bought the Project Peanut’s site for $18.1 million in 2020. A Google representative also confirmed at a Chesterfield Board of Supervisors meeting in August that the company was behind two other data center projects in the county — Project Loch and Project Skye — but it has no current development plans for either project, Richmond BizSense reported. When Virginia leaders first announced plans for the data facilities in August, authorities said Google had already broken ground on the project at the time of the announcement. County leaders said Project Peanut — which they dubbed the “Rolls-Royce of data center operators” — will generate millions annually in local tax revenues and bring new opportunities in infrastructure, energy and employment. However, some Chesterfield residents beg to differ. Community members told 8News that the data center unfairly shifts costs onto the community, including water usage and electricity expenses. Per a county press release, Project Peanut construction is slated for the end of this year and takes around 18 to 24 months to complete. Site plans did not include the total project cost or timeline. It’s not clear how many jobs the data center will create. Add as preferred source on Google Suggest a Correction Close Modal Suggest a Correction Your name (required) Your email (required) Report a typo or grammatical error (required) Submit Correction Δ ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews Trending Stories Change could be coming to Virginia’s divorce laws Family mourns 20-year-old killed in Ashland shooting Henrico opens enrollment for landscape assessment … $1.2M+ in illegal drugs seized in just one week: … Mother seeks answers after son killed in solitary Only On 8: Huguenot graduation day shooter speaks Former boxing champ to open boxing club Suspect appears in court after Richmond domestic … Charges dropped in case of Va. solitary cell killing Convicted child rapist has exploited 2 more kids: … More Trending Stories no iframe support! Events BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks Local Events