SDC™ Ashburn | Sabey Data Centers Skip to main content < All Locations SDC™ Ashburn Custom, state-of-the-art solutions in the world’s densest data center corridor Efficiency & Scalability in D.C.’s Data Center Alley Ashburn Data Center is a 38-acre data center campus residing in the heart of the nation’s densest connectivity corridor. Located in Ashburn, VA in Loudoun County (commonly referred to as Data Center Alley), the campus is less than an hour drive to Washington, D.C. Two of three buildings are now completed, offering tenants over 36 MW of power and access to multiple connectivity options. A Growing Campus in a Prime Location There are many reasons why Ashburn is the heart of the internet in North America. Beyond the simple narrative of proximity to every major hub along the East Coast, The state of Virginia provides a sales and use tax exemption on data center property, allowing your business to invest the savings back into operational costs. Ashburn Building A is coming online starting as soon as 2026 with 54 MW of additional leasable power capacity. Building A will be built to be air-cooled, liquid cooled or offer a hybrid environment to handle any compute density. 85 MW Capacity Data center power 1.35 Average Annualized PUE Efficiencies operations lower emissions & TCO >100 kW per Rack Capable of handling high density deployments 645k Square Feet Mission Critical Space Services Available 01 Colocation Each scalable, modular colocation data center space is supported by its own redundant mechanical systems. 02 Build-to-Suit The customer is at the center of our integrated approach, from custom design and build to critical operations and support. 03 Powered Shell From an independent quadrant to an entire building, our powered shell options are fully provisioned with power, water and fiber. 04 Remote Hands Our skilled, on-site IT technicians provide remote hands services to keep your hardware running and reduce overhead costs. Each scalable, modular colocation data center space is supported by its own redundant mechanical systems. The customer is at the center of our integrated approach, from custom design and build to critical operations and support. From an independent quadrant to an entire building, our powered shell options are fully provisioned with power, water and fiber. Our skilled, on-site IT technicians provide remote hands services to keep your hardware running and reduce overhead costs. SDC Ashburn Data Center Details & Specifications Need more information? Feel free to contact us to set up a tour. And in the meantime, please download our SDC Ashburn cutsheet for a more in-depth look at our data center campus in Ashburn, VA. Download the Spec Sheet SDC Ashburn Campus Overview Design & Construction Each building on our Ashburn data center campus is built on the foundations of sustainability, security and durability. Modular design makes it easy for you to scale as your business grows. Single or multi-tenant buildings available Private suites and data halls available Designed for flexibility, customization, and easy scalability Learn More About Design & Construction Operations SDC Ashburn's award-winning operations team of highly trained industry professionals works around the clock to ensure the security and reliability of your infrastructure. Each facility is professionally maintained to ensure the highest level of performance from your computing, network and storage equipment. Critical environment monitoring 24/7 State-of-the-art control and monitoring systems Mission critical responsiveness to changes in the data center environment Online customer portal to access real time reporting Fire detection systems installed above and below racks Energy Efficiency Cooling systems are an integral part of the data center ecosystem; we utilize meaningful innovations to decrease overall power usage while ensuring the optimal environment for our customers and their equipment. Evaporative and economizer cooling Liquid cooling enabled Hot aisle / cold aisle containment systems Roof top Air Handling Units Chilled Water system with CRAH units for Building B Reliability Our redundant electrical systems provide a highly resilient environment to virtually eliminate downtime. 70+ MW of aggregate power delivered to the campus Up to 2.85 MW of critical power per module Onsite substation to help support our clients’ current and future power requirements Electrical backup systems in N+1 configuration Redundant HVAC systems designed for immediate failover Building B: 2.25 MW capacity generators with 48 hour run time at peak load Building C: 2 MW capacity generators with 72 hour run time at peak load On-site fuel supply for emergency events with additional supply through emergency fuel contracts Tier III standard equivalent Connectivity Our Ashburn data center is a carrier-neutral facility which allows interconnection between multiple telecommunication carriers for both local metro and long haul networks. Currently supports connections to more than 5 Tier 1 network providers Networks include Cogent, CrownCastle, Fiberlight, PacketFabric (SDN) and Zayo (lit and dark fiber) with additional carriers building in regularly. Dual campus fiber entries and redundant pathways On-site carrier-class Meet-Me-Rooms Sustainability We build and maintain sustainable data center facilities that are energy efficient and reduce impact on the environment. All-LED lighting Energy Star Certified Low PUE design Discover Our Commitment to Sustainable Data Centers Compliance We adhere to multiple compliance standards to ensure that your equipment, data, and business interests are well protected. HIPAA & HITECH PCI DSS SSAE 18 SOC 1 Type 2 and SOC 2 Type 2 ISO 27001 Certified Learn More Amenities & Other Features Our high-performance data center campus was designed and constructed with more than just racks and servers in mind. Our facilities are built to make our customers feel productive and comfortable while they are on-site. Attractive dedicated entrances and signage potential Shared common area conference rooms, hoteling stations, restrooms with showers and lockers Dedicated equipment yards are secure and convenient High & grade level loading docks Storage and office space Get Started Reach out about our data center in Ashburn, VA Our data center specialists can answer any questions you may have regarding carriers, networks, cloud on-ramps, compliance, security, equipment, cost, sustainability, efficiency and much more. Connect with us to get your questions answered or to schedule a tour of one of our facilities. Visit Us 21741 Red Rum Dr Ashburn, VA 20147 Get Directions More Locations Ashburn, VA SDC™ Ashburn Austin, TX SDC™ Austin East Wenatchee, WA SDC™ Columbia New York, NY SDC™ Manhattan Quincy, WA SDC™ Quincy Seattle, WA SDC™ Seattle Umatilla, OR SDC™ Umatilla