Colovore plans data center in Austin, Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Colovore plans data center in Austin, Texas Company given green light for facility in Hutto December 09, 2024 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Colovore is developing a liquid-cooled data center outside Austin, Texas. As reported by BizJournal and Taylor Press , Colovore was granted a site use permit by Hutto City Council last week for a new data center. Inside Colovore's liquid cooled data center – Colovore The company had filed to develop a 180,000 sq ft (16,720 sqm) data center and 13,000 sq ft office complex at 2351 Innovation Blvd, at the intersection of State Highway 130 and West US 79 in Williamson County. The development is known as Project Raptor and would see an estimated $500 million invested. Construction could start in early 2026. The site is part of a one million-square-foot industrial park, developed by a joint venture of Velocis, Ironwood Realty Partners, and MBK Industrial Properties. The site owner is listed as Velocis Hutto Innovation JV LLP. Launched in 2013, Colovore carved out an early niche for liquid-cooled racks capable of up to 35kW. The company launched its original single-story, 24,000 sq ft (2,230 sqm) facility at 1101 Space Park Drive in Santa Clara in 2014, with the last 2MW expansion announced in February 2022. The company announced plans to build a second 9MW facility, known as SJC02, on a neighboring plot in November 2022 . The facility, located at 3060 Raymond Street, is due to launch in December. SJC02 will support densities up to 250kW per cabinet through a combination of rear door and direct-to-chip liquid cooling. Previously owned by Digital Realty Trust and Silicon Valley real estate development firm Pelio & Associates, investment firm King Street acquired the company earlier this year. At the time of the acquisition, the company noted plans to expand and has since detailed plans for facilities in Reno, Nevada, and Chicago, Illinois. At the time, the companies mentioned plans to “quickly scale into additional Tier One markets” across the US. More markets are “on the way,” according to this week’s announcement. Cerebras, Lambda Cloud, and Cirrascale, amongst others, are known customers of Colovore. Austin has a large data center market, with Prologic and Skybox co-developing a site in Hutto. Subscribe to our daily newsletters Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter series. More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 16 Feb 2026 Amazon files to develop tape library data center outside London, UK Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America Addressing constrained grids with onsite generation 05 Nov 2025 Columbia Capital leads $230m Centra investment for data center build-outs in Reno and Minneapolis Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Williamson County Texas 2351 Innovation Blvd Austin Project Raptor Hutto Colovore Comments