Beale Infrastructure plans second data center campus outside Tucson, Arizona, and two outside Tulsa, Oklahoma - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Beale Infrastructure plans second data center campus outside Tucson, Arizona, and two outside Tulsa, Oklahoma Blue Owl-owned company looks to develop 600 acres in Pima County’s Marana October 27, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Blue Owl-backed Beale Infrastructure is planning new data center campuses in Arizona and Oklahoma. The data center developer has filed applications for a second data center campus outside Tucson, Arizona, and is also seeking to develop two sites outside Tulsa in Oklahoma. Beale targets land in Oklahoma – Google Maps Beale looks at second Arizona site As reported by local press, including AZ Central and KGUN9 , the town of Marana has received applications to build a data center campus. Two applications were submitted to the town this month to develop two sites located south of Pinal Airpark Road and west of I-10 into a data center campus. Marana is a town that mostly lies in Pima County, northeast of Tucson. Town officials said the applications were submitted by Lazarus and Silvyn, P.C., representing Fremont Peak Properties LLC, which is a Beale Infrastructure-owned company. The two sites total 300 acres each, and are currently owned by Corp. Presiding Bishop of Church LDS and Kai Family Tr97 & Kai Tr 97 S12 LLC. “They haven’t identified a specific number of buildings, but it’d be a series of buildings that are put up that store the servers and all of that that provide support for technology, as far as the cloud storage, AI, things of that nature,” Marana’s development services director, Jason Angell, told KGUN9. He added the site would be air-cooled, however. The Marana town council updated its ordinances last year to clarify approval requirements for data centers. Town officials told AZ Central they have had conversations with several interested companies over the past three years. Beale continues on in Arizona Beale Infrastructure is a data center developer backed by alternative investment asset company Blue Owl. The company is hoping to develop a large-scale data center campus elsewhere in Pima County, but has been facing pushback from local residents and officials. Project Blue is a 290-acre site set to host a data center campus , with Amazon linked to the project . Beale has said there is no agreement in place with AWS. The initial phase of the project is located in Pima County’s Southeast Employment and Logistics Center. At least three data centers are reportedly set to be built, but the final number of buildings could be higher; reports suggest up to 10 buildings totaling 2 million sq ft (185,805 sqm) and 600MW are planned. Beale has said it aims to invest $3.6 billion in the project. Construction work on the first phase is set to run from 2026 to 2029, with the first buildings potentially going live in 2027. Local officials last month denied an annexation request that would have given the project access to the city’s reclaimed water system. The company, however, has since filed for a ten-year, 286MW energy supply agreement with the Arizona Corporation Commission, the state’s utilities regulator. Beale has also announced an updated project design for its proposed data center project in Pima County, suggesting the project will go ahead without the previously requested water connection. The updated design, developed in partnership with the Pima County board of supervisors, incorporates air cooling technology that utilizes a closed-loop system. The company will not use any reclaimed water from the city for the project. “We appreciate the dialogue with the Pima County Board of Supervisors about the project plan and will be soliciting and implementing feedback from members of the community,” Michael Nudelman, chief development officer at Beale Infrastructure, said last month, “this revised project plan is designed to the highest standard of sustainable facility operations, utilizing existing clean energy resources and incorporating air cooling technology.” The No Desert Data Center Coalition is continuing to mobilize against the project, recently protesting outside a Democratic Party fundraiser, calling on Pima County board supervisor Matt Heinz to reverse his support for the project. Beale comes to Oklahoma Beale Infrastructure is also known to be planning a development outside Kansas City in De Soto , Kansas. On its website, the firm notes planned development in Tulsa, Oklahoma. This week, the Broken Arrow Sentinel and News9 reported that Beale is planning a development in Coweta, a city southeast of Tulsa in Wagoner County. The proposed Project Atlas development is targeting land along 16192 State Highway 51B, just south of Coweta and east of Highway 72. Coweta City manager Julie Casteen told the Sentinel that Beale has a purchase and sale agreement with both the Coweta Industrial Development Authority and a private owner for the site, and a rezoning request has been submitted. Full details about the proposal are unclear, but the company is hosting an open house about the project later this month. Local property records show the Coweta Industrial Development Authority sold 40 acres of property to Chicago-based Quartz Mountain Properties for $850,000 late last year. Quartz Mountain, which is involved in another Beale project in the area, signed another land deal with Hopping Family Trust earlier this year. Beale has also been named as the firm behind Project Clydesdale , a planned 506-acre data center campus in Owasso, a city northeast of Tulsa. The development, in Tulsa County, will be located north of East 76th Street North, east of North Yale Avenue, south of East 86th Street North, and west of North Sheridan Road. The project will consist of at least one phase with three possible additional phases, with each phase covering approximately 200,000 sq ft (18,580 sqm). First reported in May , the county board approved the project’s economic development plan and tax incentives last month. Beale was working with Quartz Mountain on that development. Neither Tulsa, nor Oklahoma more generally, has a major data center ecosystem. Google operates a data center campus to the east of Tulsa in Pryor, Mayes County. Announced in 2007, it launched a facility there back in 2011 and has expanded at regular intervals since. TierPoint operates several data centers in Tulsa . Last year, Tonaquint acquired an EdgeX data center in Oklahoma City. A 340-acre campus known as Project Anthem is in the works in Tulsa. Meta has been linked to the development, which is due to begin construction next year. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 17 Mar 2026 Nscale acquires 8GW Monarch Compute Campus, Microsoft signs on for 1.35GW of compute Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in Colocation & Wholesale NTT Global Data Centers Guide to India data center expansion 12 Mar 2026 Microsoft in talks for the Crusoe Abilene capacity OpenAI's Stargate skipped - report 15 Dec 2025 CloudHQ to begin constructing 276MW data center in Germany next year Tags Arizona Beale Infrastructure Blue Owl Blue Owl Capital Coweta Oklahoma Owasso Pima County Project Atlas Project Blue Project Clydesdale Quartz Mountain Properties LLC Tucson Tulsa Tulsa County Wagoner County Comments