De Soto, Kansas, approves $700m data center - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel De Soto, Kansas, approves $700m data center Blue Owl-backed Beale Infrastructure plans project outside Kansas City August 26, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say The city council of De Soto, Kansas. has approved a $700 million data center. Preliminary site planning – Beale Infrastructure Developer Mount Sunflower Properties, LLC, which is associated with Blue Owl-backed Beale Infrastructure, will build ‘Project Pilot’ in four phases on a 290-acre land parcel near Edgerton Road, 103rd Street, Kansas Highway 10, and 95th Street, offering 1.14 million sq ft (110,000 sqm) of floor area once completed. De Soto is southwest of Kansas City. The data center development will be located next to an EV battery plant recently opened by Japan’s Panasonic. The parcel is already zoned for light-industrial use, and utilities will be provided by Kansas utility Evergy, Water District No.7, and the City of De Soto. The facility was approved by the City of De Soto last Thursday along with several other related considerations, including whether to provider property tax and sales tax exemptions on up to $50 billion in Industrial Revenue Bonds, which are bonds issued by governments but are given to private enterprise; consideration of a development agreement regarding details of the project; and whether to state the City’s intent to grant future property tax abatements. A presentation provided to the De Soto City Council showed that the developer will deliver its first building by 2027. Beale Infrastructure would have been responsible for Amazon’s ‘Project Blue’ data center proposal in Tucson, Arizona had it not been rejected by the local city council. The end user of the facility is unknown. Beale Infrastructure’s lawyer, Korb Maxwell, also represented the CRG Cumulus LLC, the developer of the recently rejected ‘ Project Cumulus ’ data center proposal in St. Charles, Missouri. More in Construction & Site Selection Preventing multimillion dollar data center losses through reporting 09 Dec 2025 Evolution partners with HTC for data centers in Vietnam Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 26 Mar 2026 Core Scientific secures $500m in financing from JPMorgan Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Beale Infrastructure Blue Owl Blue Owl Capital De Soto Kansas Kansas City Mount Sunflower Properties LLC Comments