Telxius Cable Landing Station Virginia Beach Data Center Telxius Cable Landing Station Virginia Beach Latest Podcast 1900 Corporate Landing Pkwy Operational Planned Operational with future phases planned Operated by: Virginia Beach Metro Virginia State Mid-Atlantic Region United States Country North America Region Americas Region Telxius Cable Landing Station Virginia Beach Utility Provider: Dominion Power Lot Size: 12 acres &blk14;&blk14;&blk14; Request Dataset MW Total Power &blk14;&blk14;&blk14;&blk14;&blk14;&blk14; Login to view SqFt Gross Colocation Size The Telxius campus is in Corporate Landing Business Park in Virginia Beach on a 11.5 acre plot. The first phase of the Globalinx Virginia Beach data center campus consists of an existing 10,750 square-foot facility for meet-me-room and interconnection facility. There are plans to add 25,000 square-foot site. The site can expand further with a an additional 115,000 square-feet of data center space. If demand warrants, the building could be expanded at the North and South ends. there is another 10-acre site adjoining the existing plot for data center development to ensure scalable and planned growth. Telxius, Subsea Landing Station The Telxius data center in Virginia Beach is the landing station for the MAREA cable. Microsoft and Facebook are building MAREA, a transatlantic submarine cable. The cable, which is 6,000 km long and can transport 160 terabytes per second, joins Europe (Sopelana, Spain) and United States (Virginia Beach) and is operated by Telxius. Read more Map and Nearby Locations: 1900 Corporate Landing Pkwy Telxius Sites Nearby Facilities Click to see the map Baxtel Sites 0 sites × No Baxtel sites in current view Distance Site About 0.23 miles PointOne: NAP of Virginia Beach 0.62 miles Globalinx Virginia Beach Globalinx in Virginia Beach will offer direct access to MAREA and BRUSA subsea cables. The cables land in the Telxius cable landing station, which is approximately 600 meters away. Globalinx is constructing diverse parallel conduits the length of the site into both point of entries which will be owned and managed by Globalinx. 11.99 miles Etheridge Lakes Data Center The proposed data center in Chesapeake, Virginia, which was planned for a 22.6-acre parcel, was ultimately rejected by the Chesapeake City Council in a unanimous 7-0 vote. 14.01 miles EdgeConneX Norfolk Customer work spaces are available Rights to adjacent space to accommodate expansion. 16.57 miles Globalinx: Portsmouth, VA Virginia data center firm Globalinx is planning to develop a second data center site near Norfolk, Virginia. The company didn’t provide further details on capacity or timelines yet. Telxius Subsea Cable Network Source: Telxius Building Floor and Landscape Plan Source: Baxtel Subsea Cables Landing in Virginia Beach Source: Virginia Beach Economic DEvelopment Board MAREA and BRUSA cables are now landing in Virginia Beach. The Virginia Beach landing port provides an alternative to NY and Flordia landing stations. Map of Virginia Beach Data Centers and Corporate Landing Business Park Source: City of Virginia Beach Operated by: Telxius is the telecommunication infrastructure company of the Telefónica Group managing a unique combination of towers and an international network of high capacity fiber optic submarine cables. As specialists in telecommunication infrastructure, we aim at enabling the best communication for our customers. With over 16,550 telecommunications towers in six countries, Telxius features one of the most extensive tower catalogues in the world, effectively serving customers as the leading tower company in Spain, Germany and Argentina and as a main provider in Brazil, Chile and Peru. In addition, Telxius offers advanced services on its 87,000 km international network which consists of ten high capacity submarine fibre optic cables, including the two highest capacity systems in the world, MAREA and BRUSA, both already open for business. MAREA, a joint project with Microsoft and Facebook, is the highest-capacity submarine cable to ever cross the Atlantic. With its 11,000 km and cutting-edge technology, BRUSA links the United States and Brazil. SAM-1, PCCS, and UNISUR represent additional high capacity routes linking the United States and Latin America. Read more View Company 3 Facilities 0 Markets 9MW Megawatts A Virginia Beach City data center construction project is facing delays after design enhancements have postponed plans by several months. These plans include relocating the Virginia Beach Municipal Center's data center to the building’s third floor will now be delayed by seven months. First re... September 09, 2021 Virginia Beach A Dutch company wants to create a new data center park to draw the likes of Snapchat, IBM and Uber. NxtVn will spend $1.5 billion to $2 billion to build a hub off General Booth Boulevard to attract companies that seek high-capacity connections from the U.S. to Europe. The company also plans... August 25, 2018 Virginia Beach Read More News Executive SummaryIn this episode recorded live at PTC 26, Eric Bell speaks with Sharad Agarwal, CEO of Sify Infinit Spaces, the data center arm of Sify Technologies. Sharad Agarwal explains how Sify built India’s first commercial Tier III data center in 20... Mar 12, 2026 Eric Bell World In this episode, we sit down with Cliff Federspiel, President and CTO of Vigilent, to explore how AI driven control systems are reshaping data center cooling, energy use, and operational reliability. Cliff shares his journey from academic research and HVAC controls... Feb 05, 2026 Eric Bell World In this Baxtel Podcast episode, Eric Bell sits down with Wes Cummins, CEO of Applied Digital, to unpack how hyperscale AI data centers are being built far from traditional metros. Wes shares why power availability and fiber routes matter more than population densit... Jan 15, 2026 Eric Bell Applied Digital In this episode, Eric Bell sits down with Russell Fletcher to unpack what it really means to operate a modern power grid in Texas. He is a Russell shares how ERCOT keeps generation and load balanced at 60 Hz, why transmission congestion matters as ... Jan 05, 2026 Eric Bell Dallas Nick Kruse is a chemical engineer turned energy entrepreneur who sits at the nexus of power and compute, and in this episode he explains why behind-the-meter natural gas generation is becoming a long-term strategy for large data centers rather than a temporary brid... Sep 04, 2025 Eric Bell Texas See More Podcasts Telius_VA_Beach_Colocation-ES.pdf Virginia Beach Landing Station Info Sheet (Spanish) April 2017 Nuevo_Mapa_Telxius.pdf Telxius Map (PDF) November 2018 Ready to Level up Your Data Center Strategy? Message Us Book Consultation