Statement on Data Centers in New Orleans - AAE - Alliance for Affordable Energy : AAE – Alliance for Affordable Energy × Watchdog Statement on Data Centers in New Orleans 01.28.2026 Consumer Protection New Orleans City Council Entergy New Orleans Bills & Economics Environmental Justice We are aware of talks about a proposed data center in New Orleans East and are still trying to learn more about what’s been proposed. The Alliance does not support the buildout of resource intensive data centers in our city or state and we’re glad to see the New Orleans City Council and Mayor Moreno taking the issue of data centers seriously. The data center boom happening across the country is raising real concerns about energy use, water demand, and community impacts. As we’ve seen with the new Meta data center being built in Richland Parish, corporations like Meta and Entergy stand to make incredible profits from headquartering AI data centers in our region, but we are the ones taking on all the risk and footing the bill . This latest data center project is being proposed in New Orleans East, a predominantly African American and Vietnamese American community that has long borne the disproportionate impacts of industrial development and environmental harm. This project threatens to perpetuate environmental racism and place additional burdens on the people who live in this community. New Orleans needs to be proactive in preventing developments that will be harmful to our communities. With a lot of information circulating, it’s important to be clear about what’s actually on the table right now: The data center is being proposed by MS Solar Grid Data (which does not appear to be a solar developer, they just happen to have solar in their name) The proposed site is near Interstate 10 and Read Boulevard The proposed site is currently zoned for residential use, meaning before any additional decisions are made, the city’s Department of Safety and Permits would have to vote to rezone the area and the zoning ordinance itself would need to be changed. Mayor Moreno has indicated her opposition to the project in a video shared to social media The City Council is introducing two motions during their Special Meeting today that will initiate a conversation about zoning and data centers, and to consider an explicit prohibition on data centers in the city. We are actively monitoring the developments out of City Hall and look forward to working with residents and elected officials to ensure community concerns remain front and center and are honored. Head to our Take Action blog for more information on how you can speak up and make a difference Take Action Related News PSC sets process in motion to benefit monopoly... 04.16.2026 Utility Regulation How Renewable Energy Can Help Stabilize Your Power... 04.08.2026 Renewable Energy, Utility Regulation Meta Demands More Energy & Entergy Plans for... 04.07.2026 Utility Regulation PSC Approves New Programs To Pay Residents For... 03.18.2026 Utility Regulation Voting is free. Your utilities aren’t. 03.05.2026 Democracy & Elections, Utility Regulation, Renewable Energy Consumer Groups Alarmed as PSC Declines to Take... 02.25.2026 Utility Regulation Winter Storm Fern and its Costly Consequences 02.05.2026 Utility Regulation Entergy’s Latest Ask: $400 Million for Grid Hardening 01.21.2026 Utility Regulation