1 million square-foot data center proposed in South DeKalb | Business | decaturish.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Business Close Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email A one-million-square-foot data center campus has been proposed for 4280 and 4358 Loveless Place, and 2281 Pineview Trail in Ellenwood, Georgia, in south DeKalb County. GOOGLE MAPS SCREENSHOT Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save [+] Add Decaturish on Google ELLENWOOD, Ga. — A 1-million-square-foot data center is being proposed at 4280 and 4358 Loveless Place and 2281 Pineview Trail in Ellenwood, Georgia, in South DeKalb County. The DeKalb County Commission deferred the application during its Sept. 30 zoning meeting. According to a county staff report, the 95-acre site would be a data center campus with an outdoor electric substation. Three two-story buildings would be located on the site. The county planning department is also working on a text amendment to regulate data centers , particularly large ones like this proposal. A moratorium on new data center developments is in place until Oct. 16. PCC-DeKalb, LLC is seeking a special land use permit for the center, which would be in a small lot residential mix and mixed-use low-density zoning districts. The site is also in the Bouldercrest Overlay District, Tier 5, and the Soapstone Historic District. “While the [Bouldercrest Overlay District] land use table does not include a ‘Data Center’ land use category, it appears that the applicant has indicated the most similar land use in the BOD is ‘utility structure for transmission of service,’” the staff report says. The staff considers the proposed use to be most similar to warehousing and storage, which is not allowed in Tier 5. “Additionally, there is no ‘utility structure’ land use in the underlying land use table of Article 4 of the Zoning Ordinance, but the most similar land uses are ‘electric transformer station’ and ‘warehousing and storage,’” the staff report says. Planning staff recommended deferral because the project conflicts with the overlay district rules and the county’s comprehensive plan. Several residents attended the hourslong meeting until the end to speak out against this proposal. A site plan shows a proposal for a one-million-square-foot data center campus proposed at 4280 and 4358 Loveless Place and 2281 Pineview Trail in Ellenwood, Georgia. DEKALB COUNTY/PROVIDED Download PDF DEKALB COUNTY/PROVIDED This is a developing story. Keep checking Decaturish.com for updates. Want Decaturish delivered to your inbox every day? Sign up for our free newsletter by clicking here . Support Decaturish by making a contribution today. Visit here to learn more. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Tags Data Center Dekalb County Zoning Meeting Land Use Permit Bouldercrest Overlay District Warehousing And Storage Zoe Seiler Assistant Editor Author email The Latest from Decaturish Tucker Tucker City Council work session to focus on budget Updated 6 hrs ago Tucker is undergoing a transition in its finance department following the departure of its former finance direct… Read more Tucker City Council work session to focus on budget DeKalb County DeKalb water customers still owe $288M in unpaid bills Updated 11 hrs ago DeKalb County water customers owe about $288 million in unpaid bills. Active accounts make up $137.5 million, an… Read more DeKalb water customers still owe $288M in unpaid bills Brookhaven DeKalb County Public Safety Family: DeKalb County shooting victim was not homeless Updated 12 hrs ago Brookhaven police say a man accused of shooting and killing three people outside a Kroger last month has died in… Read more Family: DeKalb County shooting victim was not homeless comments powered by Disqus © Copyright 2025 Decaturish, from Appen Media. 319 North Main Street, Alpharetta, GA Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Comment Policy Locally Sourced News