Philadelphia, PA - Collegeville Data Center | Flexential Skip to main content Data Centers Philadelphia - Collegeville Philadelphia - Collegeville data center Our Philadelphia - Collegeville data center is backed by a 100% commitment to satisfaction, as well as power, bandwidth, and network services availability. The facility accommodates the high power densities that hyperconverged infrastructures require, with power capabilities of 80kW+ per cabinet and support for highly efficient liquid cooling technologies. Request Tour Get Quote Colocation Philadelphia - Collegeville data center 101 Troutman Road Collegeville , PA 19426 United States 203,703 square-foot data center footprint 7.2 MW critical power for high-density workloads 100% SLA on power, cooling, network and bandwidth Download the guide to explore all facility features and specifications Download Guide Why Philadelphia Why choose our Philadelphia data centers? As the 19th largest economy in the world, Philadelphia offers businesses unmatched opportunities for growth. The city’s diverse economy, cost-effective energy, and thriving tech ecosystem make it a premier destination for IT innovation. Home to 21 Fortune 500 companies, Philadelphia also provides strong support for businesses through tax incentives and funding programs. Book a Data Center Tour Discover Philadelphia Specifications Philadelphia – Collegeville data center specifications Power and Cooling Power and Cooling Our data centers have the capability to deliver more than 1,500 watts per square foot powering your most intensive applications. This allows you to realize cost savings, even in a high-density compute-intensive environment due to our highly efficient built-in liquid cooling capabilities. Flexential is committed to data center sustainability. Liquid Cooling Guide More on Sustainability 2(N+1) UPS redundancy 7.2 MW critical load UPS capacity 1,500+ W/SF power density N+1 cooling redundancy Hot/cold aisle configuration 100% power SLA Interconnection Interconnection The Flexential Interconnection fiber network is built to handle connectivity-rich AI and ML workloads using multiple, diverse connections from leading national providers to ensure maximum performance and reliability, with 10-gigabit and 100-gigabit connections. Learn More One unified fabric offering on-demand provisioning of connectivity services Connections to strategic carrier hotels 100Gbps network backbone Access to a rich ecosystem of carriers, service providers and cloud providers reachable from any data center IP transit service built on a blend of premium Tier I carriers and including basic DDoS scrubbing protection Point to point and mesh services available to connect Flexential data centers Security Security Contiguous space layouts provide additional access and surveillance control for the most sensitive and critical applications. We're here 24/7, constantly monitoring, investigating, and responding to potential threats and breaches to give you peace of mind. Learn More Physical environment, power delivery, generator and diesel fuel infrastructure monitoring Round-the-clock security and technical staff Dual-factor authentication access Biometric scanners 6-zone security access Monitored security cameras and intercom system Cage security cameras available Compliance Compliance Adhering to regulations and industry standards is a requirement for doing business in a global market. You can leverage our audit-ready facilities and compliant cloud infrastructure to ensure the security and availability of your applications and data—and help meet your company’s IT compliance requirements. Learn More HITRUST CSF compliant site PCI DSS compliant site Annual, independent audits for SOC 1 Type II, SOC 2 Type II, SOC 3; NIST 800-53; ITAR; SSAE 18 HITRUST and PCI certification services available Regulatory and standards compliance assessment, analysis, consulting and planning services available Services Services We provide specialized consulting, testing and services to help you secure and maintain compliance requirements, avoid, and remediate security breaches and optimize environments, processes, and workloads. Learn More Security and compliance Vulnerability and risk assessment Architecture and planning Implementation services 360+ on-net carriers nationwide See all carriers Related Products Explore products and services for hybrid IT needs of all sizes Colocation Our strategically positioned colocation footprint features 40+ data centers across 18 high-growth markets and 300+ on-net carriers delivering secure, redundant, and efficient high-density power without the cost or responsibility of in-house data centers. Learn More Interconnection Get access to an industry-leading 100Gbps network backbone, hundreds of carriers, subsea cables and low-latency connections to cloud providers, including AWS, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, and Oracle Cloud. Learn more Cloud Our suite of cloud solutions provides the ability to scale in any direction on demand and improve business responsiveness. Protect data, maintain control, and optimize hybrid IT costs with best-in-class cloud options. Learn More Comprehensive solutions, powered by the FlexAnywhere® Platform Explore the Platform 40+ data centers 18 U.S. markets 100 Gbps network backbone Related Data Centers Explore related data centers You might also be interested in these data centers. Book a data center tour with our expert team today. Book a Data Center Tour Atlanta - Alpharetta 142,475 6 MW Dallas - Plano 261,425 18 MW Charlotte - North 62,589 3.3 MW Las Vegas - North 111,240 9 MW See More Data Centers Book a Data Center Tour Book your Collegeville data center tour Tour Collegeville with one of our experts Book your Collegeville data center tour today Explore Data Center Resources infographic 5 ways colocation can future-proof your footprint View Now brochure Why choose a Philadelphia data center? View Brochure data sheet Atlanta, GA - Norcross 2 Data Center Download Guide