FAQs 2 — Rowan in Temple 0 FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Who is Rowan? Rowan is headquartered in Denver, Colorado and all of our employees are based here in the United States – with a growing footprint right here in Central Texas. We currently have several projects in Texas between Medina County and Temple. Rowan was established in 2020 to provide net-zero power solutions for mission-critical green data centers. We deliver customized and configurable data centers that provide our customers with the flexibility they need to urgently decarbonize their operations. Our company builds these facilities to our high sustainability standards and then leases them to a hyperscale data center operator - companies like Microsoft, Meta, Amazon, Google and Oracle. Where are the proposed developments? The data center sites are all on industrial land in East Temple that have been designated by the city and county for exactly this kind of development. Are these Rowan’s first projects in Temple? Under previous company leadership, Rowan completed construction on the Moriah Data Center, along Bob White Road. The Moriah facility became operational in 2023, and a tenant was in place until late 2024, when they vacated the property. After reassessing its value as digital infrastructure and engaging with city officials, Rowan has determined the most appropriate use for the facility is to transition it to a warehouse to support the construction and operations teams at our first hyperscale project under construction nearby. How is Rowan’s work different now? Rowan's leadership team has grown significantly since the Moriah facility was built and now includes a number of new executives with decades of experience leading hyperscale companies. Our new team has prioritized transparency, collaboration, and sustainability every step of the way. We intend to be long-term members of the Temple community and are working every day to build trust with all stakeholders. Why is Rowan building more data centers here? As our reliance on digital services grows, communities need robust infrastructure to support faster, more reliable internet and cloud access - a need that has been identified by the city of Temple and other local governments. Rowan is helping to meet that demand, improve service quality, support local businesses, and add resilience in case of outages. The developments will also bring economic benefits like job creation, community investment, and long-term support for the area's digital growth. Is Rowan working on additional projects in the area? Rowan intends to be a long-term member of the Temple community and is actively exploring the potential for additional projects in the Temple area. We welcome the opportunity to partner with this community on further investments in the region. Are there visual impacts? For each project, Rowan will conduct a visual impacts study to help our team implement viewshed impact mitigation strategies like vegetation and screening plans. The vegetation will provide a four-season visual screen with clustered and multi-layered rows of trees and shrubs, including native and drought tolerant vegetation, to buffer the project from the adjacent residential properties. All landscaping, screening and buffering will be installed prior to project operation and will be maintained regularly. Additionally, we’ll be implementing voluntary setbacks from neighboring property lines and ensuring smaller overall footprint. Will these data centers be loud? Through the zoning process, Rowan agreed to outperform the code requirements for sound levels of industrial projects. This involves a sound study and mitigation plan which must be approved by the City before they issue us a Certificate of Occupancy. Once operational, if the City receives and validates a noise complaint, the City has the right to cause Rowan to address the sound levels. What are the economic benefits of these projects for Temple? Each project is expected to bring 550+ high-quality jobs during construction and at least 40 full-time jobs once operational, at wages starting at $80,000 annually. In total, these projects represent a more than $3B investment in the region – which translates to significant increases in tax revenue for the city and county, as well as the Temple and Rogers independent school districts and other taxing jurisdictions. What permanent positions will these facilities need? Rowan has several direct employees in Temple, including some that have lived here for decades. Our general contractors and subcontractors also have a significant local presence. Wherever possible, we prioritize the local workforce. Construction on each facility is projected to create more than 550 jobs and once operational, the data centers will employ at least 40 full-time staff (each). These jobs will be based here in Temple. During operations, data centers typically employ facilities technicians, operations managers, network and systems engineers, IT support staff, performance and capacity planners, security and compliance specialists, and sustainability professionals who ensure efficiency and regulatory adherence. The data center also requires 3rd party services from companies in the area which can have an indirect impact on employment in the community. How is Rowan engaging with the community? Rowan has been meeting with city and county leadership, as well as the Temple Economic Development Council, for some time to discuss our plans in Temple. Each of our Temple projects have had at least three public hearings. We have established an open line of communication with local leaders and residents. We hosted an Open House in March 2026, to provide residents with an opportunity to meet the Rowan team, ask questions, and provide input on our plans. To date, Rowan has partnered with several local organizations to support shared priorities - like Cultivate Academy, Feed My Sheep, Family Promise of Bell County, and local law enforcement’s charity drives around the holidays. You can read more here: www.rowantemple.com/community . Where are you getting power for the project? Rowan’s site selection process prioritizes areas without the need for major new transmission. The utility has confirmed that power can be provided to each site without burdening residential ratepayers, while fully meeting all state and local requirements. Where are you getting water? Rowan prioritizes the responsible use of water and has been working closely with the City of Temple to develop a water supply and discharge strategy. Rowan’s data centers use fully closed-loop systems that require 1-2 million gallons during commissioning —this water recirculates for about ten years, eliminating evaporation and the need for a continuous supply. For context, the city of Temple uses 15-20 million gallons every day. We are limited by the City of Temple from using more than 4,000 gallons per day for employee facilities. As part of our sustainability commitments, Rowan is exploring ways in which we can partner with local organizations to operate as a “water positive” facility – offsetting the building’s water use by supporting replenishment projects led by local organizations. Are closed-loop cooling systems effective in extreme Texas heat? The closed loop cooling system is designed to withstand extreme temperatures, including Texas heat waves, without additional water. In fact, the system remains effective in temperatures well above anything Texas would experience even in the most extreme heat wave. This is one of the primary reasons Rowan utilizes this cooling technology. What are the gallon figures authorized in the utility service agreement with the City of Temple? A utility service agreement was unanimously approved by the Temple City Council for Rowan’s first project, and each project will also undergo a similar public process. The agreement allows an initial charge of up to 2 million gallons of water for the cooling system, which will be recirculated f