Nebius targets data center development in Birmingham, Alabama - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Nebius targets data center development in Birmingham, Alabama Company looks to redevelop former Regions Bank data center site February 10, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Nebius is planning a new data center development in Birmingham, Alabama. First reported by WBRC , the European cloud firm has filed for a data center project known as BHM01 on some 80 acres in the Oxmoor area of the city in Jefferson County. 201 Milan Parkway in Birmingham, AL – Google Maps Full details on the plans aren’t clear, but reports online suggest the company is targeting 300MW of capacity. Nebius acquired three properties along Lakeshore Parkway in the Oxmoor area of Birmingham last year. Nebius affiliate Alabama ADC Holdings LLC acquired 201, 250, and 260 Milan Parkway and 2500 Venice Road from UAB, Regions Bank, and U.S. Steel for a combined $90 million . The sites total around 80 acres. The purchase reportedly includes the Regions Lakeshore Operations Center, a former data and operations center operated by Regions Bank at 201 Milan Parkway. Filings suggest the existing building would be demolished and replaced with a new facility. BizJournal reports an affiliate of data center firm Raeden is also involved in the transaction for the 201 Milan site. Raeden last year also bought the nearby 2500 Milan Court. Birmingham is, however, currently considering a local moratorium on new data centers amid backlash against proposals for a large development in Bessemer . Nasdaq-listed Nebius is a cloud provider focused on AI workloads. The firm was spun out from Yandex in 2024, offering access to GPUs across its presence in the US, the Middle East, and Europe. Microsoft and Meta are known customers. As well as owning a data center in Mäntsälä, Finland , the company is currently leasing or set to lease capacity in the UK (London, in an Ark DC facility), France (Paris, Equinix), Israel (multiple locations, Mega Or), Iceland (Keflavik, Verne), and the US in New Jersey (Vineland, DataOne), and Missouri (Kansas City, Patmos). The company is known to be targeting another large self-built development around Kansas City . Nebius has previously said it is targeting 2.5GW of contracted capacity by the end of 2026, with some 800MW-1GW live. Founded in 2019, Raeden allows real estate owners to identify and deploy data centers in available portfolio space. Its team has previously worked at companies such as Element Critical, CIM Group, and Stack. Company investors include Founders Fund, Friends & Family Capital, and Johnson Controls through JCI Ventures. In November 2022, the company announced plans to form a new carrier hotel in Detroit , Michigan. As well as that site at 615 W Lafayette, Raeden lists availability at 800 Oliver Avenue in Indianapolis and One Campus Martius in Detroit. It says it can offer solutions from 30,000 assets across North America. Raeden has previously partnered with ImpactData for a planned project in Greensboro, North Carolina. More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 07 Nov 2025 Sam Altman: OpenAI isn't seeking a government bailout, has $1.4tn in data center commitments, may launch an AI cloud service Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in Construction & Site Selection Hong Kong: Asia’s connectivity hub Sponsored Training built the campuses. Inference will choose the markets Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities Tags 201 Milan Parkway Alabama BHM01 Birmingham Jefferson County Nebius Nebius Group Raeden Regions Bank Comments