BizSense Beat: Magnolia Green, Azalea Flea Market, new state government office Donate Search Query Show Search Copyright © 2026 VPM, all rights reserved. PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization. Menu Show Search Search Query Donate Play Live Radio Next Up: 0:00 0:00 Available On Air Stations On Air Now Playing VPM News On Air Now Playing VPM Music Radio Streams Listen to VPM News Stream Music Stream Podcasts Music Archive Thanks to our sponsors – Become a Sponsor Listen BizSense Beat: Magnolia Green, Azalea Flea Market, new state government office VPM | By Lyndon German Published February 21, 2025 at 6:45 AM EST Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Listen • 4:10 BizSense Beat is a weekly collaboration between VPM News and Richmond BizSense that brings you the top business stories during NPR's Morning Edition on Fridays. Here’s a recap of of the week of February 7, 2025: Designs for a new state government office building for Downtown Richmond were recently unveiled Reported by BizSense’s Mike Platania The Virginia Department of General Services presented the 316,000-square-foot proposal, which is projected to cost around $400 million. The office would be located at 1401 E. Broad St., where the 15-floor Virginia Department of Transportation Annex office currently stands. The new building would effectively replace the James Monroe Building where state agencies like the Virginia Department of Education and the state Treasury, currently reside. The Monroe Building was built in the late 1970s and is the city’s tallest building, but it’s faced a number of safety issues over recent years. The building's general design is inefficient and Americans with Disabilities Act compliance is not up to par with typical building practices. With those deficiencies in mind, DGS began reconsidering the state’s office needs about four years ago. In 2023 Youngkin had proposed moving many state offices out of downtown and into private spaces in the suburbs, but a DGS study last year ultimately suggested the state needing a new office building downtown, per a Times-Dispatch report . The fate of the Monroe Building and a potential new tower remains unclear for now A developer is moving forward with its data center proposal after buying Azalea Flea Market site for $8 million Reported by BizSense’s Jonathan Spiers Developer DC Blox, an Atlanta-based firm, is once again attempting to rezone an area in Henrico County for a proposed data center despite opposition to its most recent proposal from neighboring residents and from the Henrico Planning Commission. The developer has filed plans for a 65,000-square-foot data center that would rise on a roughly 5-acre site behind the CubeSmart self-storage facility on Richmond Henrico Turnpike. The filing was made three weeks after DC Blox closed on the 30-acre property that includes the data center site and the grounds of the now-former Azalea Flea Market, which ended earlier this month after a four-decade run. DC Blox was unsuccessful in its request last year to rezone the property. When a new request to rezone the 5-acre residential property went to the county’s Planning Commission in October, commissioners voted unanimously to recommend denial, citing citizen opposition to expanding industrial zoning. The project’s approval now weighs on a decision from Henrico’s board of supervisors. Developers behind the Magnolia Green project look to expand the development’s commercial space potential Reported by BizSense’s Jack Jacobs The New York-based firm Starfield Cos. is seeking to amend its prior zoning approval tied to the Magnolia Green project. The residential side of the project has seen major progress as the golf course and hundreds of single-family homes, townhomes and apartments have been built at the 3,900-acre development in the Moseley area of Chesterfield County. Meanwhile, the commercial side of the development hasn’t picked up speed. Historically, Magnolia Green has been a tough sell to commercial users because of its westernmost location on Hull Street Road. But more recently, interest on the commercial front has picked up. Starfield says the decades-old agreements put in place as part of the project’s original zoning request are too restrictive to build out commercial sites. The project’s current zoning limits it to a total of 20,000 square feet of retail and office uses across the entire site. Of that 20,000-square-foot limit, retail development specifically is limited to being no more than 12,000 square feet and no single retail or office building can be larger than 5,000 square feet, per a staff report. Starfield wants to do away with those restrictions on 88 acres across the site, to hopefully attract potential developers. The proposal wouldn’t increase residential density at the project. Magnolia Green is zoned for a maximum of nearly 4,900 residential units, which includes about 1,500 apartments. By late January, the project had seen 2,100 houses and apartments built, with more dwellings actively underway. Magnolia Green’s residential areas could reach full build out in three to four years. A new cafe and wine lounge opens its doors in Cartown as a complement to farm located in Varina Reported by BizSense’s Mike Platania Trevor and Kay Ferguson, the owners of Nouveau Farms in Varina, are preparing to open what they hope is “the ultimate date-night spot” in Carytown. Nouveau Provisions will open in the coming weeks at 3423 W. Cary St. and features coffee, wine produced by the Fergusons’ main business, Nouveau Farms, as well as desserts from local confectionery JC Desserts. The Fergusons launched Nouveau Farms in 2020 , growing such produce as lettuce, basil, cilantro and chives. It began as an indoor operation off Hull Street in South Richmond and has expanded to a 6-acre farm off Burning Tree Road in Varina. The initial plan for the pair of entrepreneurs was to open a venue at their Varina facility, then branch out with satellite locations under the Nouveau brand, but the owners are now doing things in the reverse order. You can have these and other local business stories sent right to your inbox. Sign up for the Richmond BizSense newsletter ! Tags Listen BizSense Beat Business Infrastructure Food and Drink Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Lyndon German Lyndon German covers Henrico and Hanover counties for VPM News. See stories by Lyndon German Related Stories VPM News Spanberger's vetos, bill amendments and Richmond FOIA lawsuit VPM News , April 18, 2026 Take a look at this week's top VPM News stories. VPM News Hanover planning commission recommends approving Mountain Road data center Lyndon German , April 17, 2026 The commission voted in favor of the project over vocal opposition from residents. Listen • 1:02 VPM News Manufactured home zoning, Amending Virginia and misleading campaign mailers VPM News , April 11, 2026 Take a look at this week's top VPM News stories. VPM News Gun bills, transmission line opposition and ALPRs VPM News , April 4, 2026 Take a look at this week's top VPM News stories. VPM News Culinary entrepreneur incubator in Charlottesville to expand Randi B. Hagi | WMRA , April 2, 2026 BEACON Kitchen's parent company has received nearly $1M in federal and state grants to expand. Listen • 5:12 VPM News Henrico residents raise awareness of toxic chemical used in two local plants Patrick Larsen , April 2, 2026 Ethylene oxide exposure is strongly linked to breast cancer and asthma. Listen • 1:13 VPM News Cyclists say Chesterfield's growth needs matching infrastructure Billy Shields , March 30, 2026 Over 60,000 people have moved to the area in the last decade. Listen • 0:57 VPM News Swords into Plowshares update, more bills for Spanberger's consideration VPM News , March 28, 2026 Take a look at this week's top VPM News stories. Load More Support Local News and Stories: How You Help Sustain VPM Community members – like you – sustain VPM so we can deliver local news coverage, educational programming and inspir