Atlas plans 2.4 million sq ft data center campus outside Rome, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Atlas plans 2.4 million sq ft data center campus outside Rome, Georgia Atlas plots another campus in the Peach State May 02, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A new data center campus is being proposed outside Atlanta, Georgia. Atlas Development this week filed a Development of Regional Impact application with the Georgia Department of State Affairs for a development known as Project Gracie. Atlas aims to develop a seven-building campus outside Rome, GA – Google Maps The project, located in Floyd County, is described as a “state-of-the-art data center” development totaling 2.395 million sq ft (222,500 sqm) across seven buildings. A project address wasn’t shared, but given coordinates suggest greenfield land along Vann Road NW between Rome and Coosa. Details are sparse, but build-out is expected to continue until the end of 2032. The Darryl William Edwards Living Revocable Trust is listed as the site’s current property owner. As reported by the Rome News-Tribune this week, the Rome-Floyd Planning Commission this week voted 4 to 3 to recommend approval to rezone the site for Heavy industrial use. The Floyd County Commission will make the final decision at its May 27 meeting. Little information is available about Atlas, but the company is planning several large campuses in Georgia. January saw it file for an 830-acre, 13-building data center campus south of Atlanta in Newnan, known as Project Sail. The company has since filed for a second 178-acre data center project in Rome; and another 2.2 million sq ft, six-building campus in Bartow County, some 40 miles northwest of Atlanta. The company is also planning a 428-acre technology park outside Villa Rica , some 30 miles west of Atlanta. Atlanta is a major data center hub with operators including Microsoft, CoreSite, QTS, DataBank, Flexential, Switch, DC Blox, Edged Energy, Stack, T5, Vantage, and EdgeConneX. The Peach State looks set to grow quickly in the coming years. DRI applications for more than a dozen campuses, totaling tens of millions of square feet across dozens of buildings, have been filed over the last couple of years. While many are in Atlanta’s traditional data center heartland around Fulton County, applications have been filed for projects across the region. More in Construction & Site Selection Hong Kong: Asia’s connectivity hub 14 Jan 2026 LightHouse Data Centers launches, plans 2GW pipeline Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America North America data center report 26 Nov 2025 Crown Castle files lawsuit against Dish Wireless amid tower leasing agreement exit Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Atlas Development LLC Coosa Floyd County Georgia Project Gracie Rome Comments