DC Blox to expand into Indiana, targets data center campus in Indianapolis - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel DC Blox to expand into Indiana, targets data center campus in Indianapolis Three-building campus planned at former Ford manufacturing site April 08, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say US data center firm DC Blox is looking to develop a new campus in Indianapolis, Indiana. First reported by local press, including IndyStar and Hoodline , the company has filed to develop a data center campus at 305 Fintail Drive in the Thunderbird Commerce Center. – DC Blox This would be DC Blox’s first development in Indiana. The company is looking to develop three buildings – one single-story facility totaling 80,000 sq ft (7,432 sqm), one two-story facility totaling 140,000 sq ft (13,006 sqm), and one two-story facility totaling 190,000 sq ft (17,650 sqm). The buildings would use closed-loop cooling systems. DC Blox says investment in the campus could total up to $2.2 billion inclusive of IT equipment hosted within. The Thunderbird Commerce Center previously hosted the Ford Visteon manufacturing site. Opened in 1957, the site manufactured automotive parts until it closed in 2007 and was demolished in 2017. The land was acquired in 2021 by Lauth Group, Inc., and Covington Group with plans to develop a 2 million sq ft industrial park focused on logistics and manufacturing facilities. The project is set to go before council officials in May. The project is listed on DC Blox’s website as the Thunderbird Commerce Center Project – though listed as in the “evaluation phase.” The company said the campus will be constructed over two phases with the first phase of construction “to begin immediately” upon variance and replat approval. The first phase will be a single one-story facility totaling 80,000 sq ft and expected to be complete within 24 months. The second phase will see the two larger buildings developed – work could start on those in two years and be completed in four years. BC Blox noted that Indianapolis offers “strong connectivity, access to reliable power, and a growing technology ecosystem that makes it an attractive location for digital infrastructure investment.” DC Blox has data centers in operation and development across Tennessee, Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, and Georgia, and has cable landing stations in South Carolina and Florida. The company says its footprint totals 470MW and 2.78 million sq ft across 23 facilities. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD>Survey Report: Data center construction 02 Apr 2026 10MW data center proposed at former cannabis facility outside Tulsa, Oklahoma Episode Tech showcase: How AI can streamline commissioning for mission critical facilities More in North America 5 principles for 800 VDC in AI data centers 14 Apr 2026 Nvidia launches open source Ising AI models to support quantum chip development Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 305 Fintail Drive DC Blox Indiana Indianapolis Thunderbird Commerce Center Comments