Amazon to invest $20bn in data centers in Pennsylvania - DCD Home News The Investment & Markets Channel Amazon to invest $20bn in data centers in Pennsylvania Another major investment pledge from the cloud giant June 09, 2025 By Georgia Butler Have your say Amazon is committing to investing $20 billion in Pennsylvania to expand its AI infrastructure. The company will initially focus that investment on Salem Township and Falls Township, intending to develop "innovation campuses." The company has said that other Pennsylvanian communities are under consideration for future projects. Amazon-bought data center in Pennsylvania – Talen | Cumulus The company expects that the investment will bring around 1,250 high-skilled jobs to the state, as well as "thousands" more in the data center supply chain. "Pennsylvania is competing again—and I'm proud to announce that with Amazon's commitment of at least $20 billion to build new state-of-the-art data center campuses across our commonwealth, we have secured the largest private sector investment in the history of Pennsylvania," said Pennsylvania Governor Josh Shapiro. "This initial investment from Amazon will create thousands of good-paying, stable jobs as Pennsylvania workers build, maintain, and operate the first two data center campuses in Luzerne County and Bucks County." "Amazon's multi-billion-dollar investment in Pennsylvania reinforces our dedication to advancing AI innovation while creating lasting economic opportunities in the state," added David Zapolsky, Amazon's chief global affairs and legal officer. "By expanding our cloud computing infrastructure, we're investing in Pennsylvania's future through new jobs, workforce development programs, and community initiatives. We look forward to helping drive the next generation of technology innovation, while delivering meaningful benefits for Pennsylvania residents." According to Amazon, the company has invested more than $26 billion in Pennsylvania, including infrastructure and compensation to employees, since 2010. AWS has been looking to develop in Salem Township since early 2024 . The company acquired an existing data center from Talen Energy and around 1,200 acres of land. AWS successfully rezoned 1,600 acres in the area to “Special Data Center Overlay District" in May 2024 . AWS plans to develop 15 data center buildings on the site over the course of the next decade. The company was hoping to sign an agreement with Talen Energy for a colocation agreement that would connect the AWS data center to the Susquehanna nuclear plant, and in turn enable AWS to increase capacity at the site behind the meters. This was blocked by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in October last year, a decision that was upheld in April 2025 . In November 2024, Fall Township's board of supervisors approved a nondisclosure agreement for a proposed data center project at the Keystone Trade Center in Morrisville, just outside of Philadelphia in Pennsylvania. It is unclear if this is an AWS project, though the company has been known to use NDAs for developments. The company has also invested in renewable energy projects in the state, including 12 solar farms and an on-site solar location. Amazon's investment in Pennsylvania comes just days after the company committed $10bn to expanding infrastructure in North Carolina. Similarly to that announcement, Amazon is also forming an Amazon Northeastern Pennsylvania Community Fund for which it is committing $250,000. Other investment announcements from Amazon in the last few months include $5bn to expand infrastructure in Taiwan , and $4bn in Chile for a region set to launch by the end of 2026. More in Cloud & Hyperscale Accelerating hyperscale deployments in the AI era 20 Jan 2026 Google behind $1bn data center in Little Rock, Arkansas - report Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 20 Apr 2026 Developer says it will build larger data center if plans for smaller facility near Philadelphia go unapproved Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags AWS Amazon Amazon Web Services David Zapolsky Falls Township Josh Shapiro Pennsylvania Salem Township Comments