Tract acquires 1,000 acres in Nevada for 1.6GW data center park - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Tract acquires 1,000 acres in Nevada for 1.6GW data center park Company expands landholdings outside Reno September 19, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say US data center park developer Tract has expanded its landholdings in Nevada. The company this week announced the acquisition of approximately 1,060 acres of land near Silver Springs in Lyon County, following a successful rezoning and development agreement with the county. – Tract The site can reportedly support up to 1.6GW of data center capacity, with an initial 700MW currently under utility study. “We appreciate the collaboration and thoughtful planning by Lyon County to make this a successful and smooth process,” said Graham Williams, chief investment officer at Tract Capital. “We are excited to become community members in Silver Springs and Lyon County, and we look forward to our continued partnership that will bring new jobs, investment, and community building.” Colorado-based Tract was founded by former Cologix CEO Grant van Rooyen and describes itself as a company that acquires, zones, entitles, and develops ‘master-planned’ data center parks. The company aims to get sites zoned, powered, and shovel-ready for other companies to develop data centers on. The company first announced plans for a large 2,200-acre data center park outside Reno in Nevada’s Storey County in 2023, acquiring further parcels of land in June last year. The company’s landholdings in the county total more than 11,000 acres and around 2GW. The firm is facing an ongoing legal dispute with Switch, which operates in Nevada’s Storey County. “Lyon County works hard to create a business-friendly environment that makes it easy and attractive for companies like Tract to locate here,” said Andrew Haskin, Lyon County Manager. “We are excited to leverage our proximity to the rapidly growing northern Nevada data center market and thrilled to see Tract invest in our region, bringing new jobs, infrastructure, and long-term economic growth to our community.” After launching in Nevada , Tract has plans for large-scale campuses across Texas , Virginia ( x2 ), Arizona , Minnesota ( x3 ), Iowa , and Utah . On its website, the company also lists planned developments in Illinois. Tract’s parent, Tract Capital, recently launched a dedicated data center developer, known as Fleet DC, that will develop on land owned by Tract as well as other sites. More in Construction & Site Selection Benefits and drawbacks of prefabricated modules for data centers 13 Mar 2026 Apto eyes Madrid for 240MW data center campus Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 02 Dec 2025 Iren seeks $2bn in convertible bonds for AI data center buildout Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Lyon County Nevada Reno Silver Spring Tract Comments