$10B data center deal comes as area emerges as tech hub Skip to content by: Alex Coleman Posted: May 20, 2025 / 04:40 PM CDT Updated: May 21, 2025 / 03:31 PM CDT SHARE MEMPHIS, Tenn. — A major data center linked to Google is said to be part of a $10 billion-dollar investment that could create hundreds of new jobs, according to West Memphis, Arkansas city officials. For almost a year, West Memphis Mayor Marco McClendon has hinted on News Channel Three at 3 that he would be unveiling the biggest investment in the history of West Memphis, Arkansas, very soon. “We’ve been on a winning streak for so long, and so many great things are coming in the next couple of weeks. You’re going to hear about the biggest investment in the City of West Memphis,” said Mayor McClendon. Not just the biggest impact in West Memphis, though — McClendon said it was the biggest investment in the state of Arkansas. McClendon said the project would have no impact on local water or utilities, but would have major impact on the community. “This is gonna open the door for other companies, and tech companies, coming to West Memphis,” he said. West Memphis data center (Photo by WREG) West Memphis data center (Photo by WREG) West Memphis data center (Photo by WREG) It would be located on 920 acres of land on Bollinger Road near the Coca-Cola distribution warehouse. The data center is expected to create 300 new jobs. A city spokesperson, citing non-disclosure agreements, would only tell Your News Leader that they’re working with a company called Groot LLC. However, the Memphis Business Journal is reporting that Groot is a local entity operating for Google, one of the world’s largest companies. Last week, the West Memphis City Council voted to approve several agreements with Groot, including payment in lieu of taxes, along with an infrastructure and incentives package. But complete details haven’t been released. The possible deal comes as the Memphis area emerges as a tech hub. “What we love about that Memphis is suddenly now on that stage for technology companies, data centers that are considering major investments here,” said Ted Townsend, Greater Memphis Chamber CEO and President. The Memphis area now has 11 data centers, including the Elon Musk Xai supercomputer, and a new data center is being planned on Getwell Road, the old Fred’s headquarters. “That’s exciting to us, where we adapt and reuse these facilities. And what once was an Electrolux facility is now the world’s largest supercomputer, and once was Fred’s headquarters is now going to be a data center,” said Townsend. But as more data centers come to the Mid-South, there are public concerns about transparency and the impact on the environment as the Memphis area becomes the heartbeat of the Digital Delta. “We have to support economic development, but we certainly can’t do it at the cost of a community that has historically been mistreated and not given the whole truth,” said TN Senator Raumesh Akbari, (D) Memphis. “So, that’s what I’m looking for, what turbines are actually being used, and what is the environmental impact? What’s the air quality impact? What’s the water impact?” The City of West Memphis has also agreed to a 65% real and personal property tax abatement for 30 years with Groot LLC. Add as preferred source on Google Suggest a Correction Close Modal Suggest a Correction Your name (required) Your email (required) Report a typo or grammatical error (required) Submit Correction Δ ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Most read on WREG.com Passerby helps woman being dragged away by ex-boyfriend Dad says 9-year-old girls attacked daughter at recess One teen still missing from Memphis treatment center Magnitude 4.0 earthquake rattles Mid-South St. Jude CFO leaving research hospital Read More Top Stories Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now Breaking News SIGN UP NOW World News Another wave of public outcry tests Putin’s rule … Trump sends envoys to Islamabad as Iran rules out … The Latest: Trump sending Witkoff and Kushner to … Trump dispatches Witkoff and Kushner to Pakistan … US still delivering weapons to Ukraine, Zelenskyy … Two women risked everything after US raid to protest … US launches sweeping crackdown on Southeast Asia … In Baltic skies, NATO and Russian pilots size each … More World News DO YOU HAVE A STORY THAT NEEDS TO BE INVESTIGATED? The WREG Investigators want to hear from you! Send tips to wreginvestigators@nexstar.tv BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks Don't Miss BVO: The River of Time to have grand opening on May … Poll: Would you support a state takeover of MSCS? Sign up for WREG’s Newsletter Trending Stories Passerby helps woman being dragged away by ex-boyfriend Dad says 9-year-old girls attacked daughter at recess One teen still missing from Memphis treatment center Magnitude 4.0 earthquake rattles Mid-South St. Jude CFO leaving research hospital Latest News Memphis attorney explains new TN deadly force law Passerby helps woman being dragged away by ex-boyfriend Potential for severe storms late Monday One teen still missing from Memphis treatment center Woman killed by DUI driver after vehicle breakdown: … Man leaps from second-story window to flee drug arrest, … View All News