Fidelis and B&W join forces at Mountaineer GigaSystem™ site for BrightLoop™ Facility to Process Coal into Low Carbon Energy Accessibility Statement Skip Navigation Fidelis New Energy Logo (PRNewsfoto/Fidelis New Energy, LLC) Babcock & Wilcox Logo MASON COUNTY, W.Va. , Feb. 25, 2025 /PRNewswire/ -- Fidelis New Energy ("Fidelis") is proud to announce that Fidelis and Babcock & Wilcox ("B&W"), through its wholly-owned Mountaineer C2H, LLC subsidiary, have joined forces for the development of B&W's BrightLoop ™ facility at the Mountaineer GigaSystem ™ ("Mountaineer") Site in Mason County, West Virginia . This milestone project will result in a facility that will process coal, biomass, and/or natural gas into lifecycle carbon-neutral energy utilizing abundant "all of the above" energy resources in West Virginia . The intended use for the carbon neutral energy created through the BrightLoop technology as it scales to larger units will be to power the on-site AI data center campus. B&W's BrightLoop technology is an advanced chemical looping process designed for efficient and sustainable energy production while minimizing carbon emissions. The system is based around a proprietary particle-based oxygen carrier that allows the transfer of oxygen to fuel sources without direct air combustion. This indirect method leads to lower emissions energy production and captures CO₂ as a concentrated byproduct, simplifying carbon capture and sequestration (CCS). This enables the use of coal, natural gas, and/or biomass as a fuel with far lower emissions than traditional power plants. The project site established by Fidelis' Mountaineer GigaSystem has optimal characteristics and geography and has made exemplary progress in stakeholder engagement, site development, and advancement of carbon capture and storage (CCS) capabilities. B&W and Fidelis are global alliance partners combining B&W boiler technology and certain patented Fidelis process technologies. By harnessing this work and building on the parent company's existing relationship with Fidelis, Mountaineer C2H will integrate seamlessly into the broader GigaSystem, maximizing efficiency and reducing environmental impact. The innovative plant underscores B&W's commitment to leveraging technology to harness lower carbon intensity energy and power. "Our Mountaineer BrightLoop project in West Virginia continues our history of projects in the state and will enable emerging technologies that advance reliable, cost-effective, and lower emission energy production that take advantage of our natural resources. We look forward to continuing collaboration with our long-term partner, Fidelis, as we co-locate on their Mountaineer project site." said Jimmy Morgan , B&W Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer. Fidelis Co-Founder and COO, Bengt Jarlsjo added, "We are excited to utilize B&W's BrightLoop technology at the Mountaineer site and look forward to working together to developing innovative power solutions. This collaboration marks a significant step toward driving sustainable progress and delivering transformative technologies to meet the energy needs of the future." The synergies of Mountaineer GigaSystem and the Mountaineer C2H, LLC project were also facilitated by the West Virginia Department of Commerce as consolidated with the West Virginia Department of Economic Development under Governor Patrick Morrisey's leadership. "We want to thank Governor Morrisey, Secretary Matthew Herridge and Director Michael Graney for helping to facilitate the implementation of these important projects. Their cooperation in supporting an "all of the above" energy policy will keep West Virginia a leader in energy and make the state a leader in energy intensive industries such as data centers." said Dan Shapiro , Co-Founder and CEO of Fidelis. About B&W Headquartered in Akron, Ohio , Babcock & Wilcox Enterprises, Inc. is a leader in energy and environmental products and services for power and industrial markets worldwide. Follow B&W on LinkedIn and learn more at babcock.com. Please see the following link for more information in regards to chemical looping and the BrightLoop ™ technology: BrightLoop ™ Low-Carbon Hydrogen Production » Babcock & Wilcox About Fidelis Fidelis is an "all of the above" energy infrastructure company driving infrastructure development and investments in digital infrastructure, biofuels, low or negative carbon intensity products, engineered carbon dioxide removal, and carbon capture and storage. The firm also has a growing portfolio of proprietary and patent-pending technologies to serve a rapidly evolving energy landscape with global alliances with Topsoe and Babcock & Wilcox. Fidelis is headquartered in Houston, Texas with an office in Copenhagen, Denmark . Fidelis has a portfolio of patents through the innovative integration of proven technologies. To learn more about Fidelis please visit fidelisinfra.com . Media contact: [email protected] SOURCE Fidelis New Energy, LLC 21 % more press release views with Request a Demo × Modal title Also from this source AtmosClear Selects ExxonMobil for CO₂ Transportation and Storage AtmosClear BR, LLC is pleased to announce that it has selected ExxonMobil to provide CO2 transportation and storage services for its carbon removal... Norne and Port of Aalborg Sign 30-Year Exclusive Agreement, Accept EU CEF Grant and Launch Construction of CO2 Hub Since establishing an exclusive partnership in 2021, the Norne Carbon Storage Hub ("Norne"), a Fidelis New Energy, LLC portfolio company, and the... More Releases From This Source Explore The Latest Artificial Intelligence News Artificial Intelligence Oil & Energy Environmental Products & Services News Releases in Similar Topics