Prologis eyes 13-building data center development in Indiana - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Prologis eyes 13-building data center development in Indiana Real estate firm eyes Shelbyville for new campus January 05, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Industrial real estate giant Prologis is planning a large data center development outside Indianapolis, Indiana. First reported by local news, including Shelbyville News and Fox , Prologis is filing to develop a campus in the city of Shelbyville in central Indiana. Correction : An earlier version of this story said the project was in Shelbyville, Illinois. We apologize for this error. – City of Shelbyville Lorm LLC and Alisha Clay are seeking to annex more than a dozen land parcels totaling 429 acres off of East State Road 44 east of the SR 44 and I-74 interchange, and combine them with previously-annexed land for a total of 576 acres. The land is currently zoned Agricultural or Single-Family Residential and would be annexed into city limits and rezoned General Industrial. The campus would total up to 13 buildings, according to Prologis. No end user has been secured for the site. Shelbyville is a city in and the county seat of Shelby County in central Indiana. It is some 30 miles southeast of Indianapolis. “We see an opportunity to use existing industrial land and infrastructure to support Shelbyville’s future, including the digital infrastructure that communities and businesses increasingly rely on,” JC Witt, Prologis SVP of data center investments, told Fox. “Our focus is on job creation and being a responsible, long-term partner.” The campus would reportedly use closed-loop cooling to reduce water usage. In documents, city staff were in favor of the move and said the site was “ideal for industrial development” due to its location and existing electrical infrastructure, with two Duke Energy transmission lines through the site. Mayor Scott Furgeson said the proposal aligns with the city’s long-term development goals. “Shelbyville is focused on growing in a way that makes sense for our community over the long term,” Furgeson said in a statement reported by the Addison Times. The Shelbyville plan commission and city council are due to discuss the project at meetings this week. The project, however, is set to face opposition from local residents. More than 2,100 people have signed a Change.org petition against the development. “This initiative seems to be prioritizing economic gains over the health and safety of our community,” the petition states. “The transformation of this land for commercial and industrial use does not reflect the voice and interests of Shelbyville's residents who cherish our city's present charm and sense of connectedness.” Logistics and industrial real estate giant Prologis began expanding further into the data center sector in recent years. Many of the company’s data center developments to date have been focused on building out existing landholdings, but the firm has been acquiring greenfield sites as well. Prologis says it has some 5.2GW of power committed by utilities or in advanced stages of negotiations. The company is targeting up to 10GW of capacity in the next ten years. The company has current and planned developments in Illinois , Virginia , Georgia , California , and Texas in the US, as well as Paris , France. The company previously had a development in the works in Indiana in Kosciusko County, but confirmed to DCD that it is no longer moving forward. The firm recently acquired land outside Cincinnati, Ohio, for a potential data center development. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Hong Kong: Asia’s connectivity hub 09 Apr 2026 CyrusOne gets go-ahead for data center in Sangamon, Illinois Episode Building AI-ready, sustainable data centers for the next compute era More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 The US energy crunch: How data centers are driving a new electrical infrastructure Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Indiana Indianapolis Lorm LLC Prologis Shelby County Shelbyville Comments