DRI Initial Information Form Developments of Regional Impact DRI Home Tier Map Apply View Submissions Login DRI #4607 DEVELOPMENT OF REGIONAL IMPACT Initial DRI Information This form is to be completed by the city or county government to provide basic project information that will allow the RDC to determine if the project appears to meet or exceed applicable DRI thresholds. Local Government Information Submitting Local Government: Spalding Individual completing form: David Allen Telephone: 770-467-4254 E-mail: dallen@spaldingcounty.com *Note: The local government representative completing this form is responsible for the accuracy of the information contained herein. If a project is to be located in more than one jurisdiction and, in total, the project meets or exceeds a DRI threshold, the local government in which the largest portion of the project is to be located is responsible for initiating the DRI review process. Proposed Project Information Name of Proposed Project: 75 South Data Center Campus Location (Street Address, GPS Coordinates, or Legal Land Lot Description): Land Lots 10 & 11, 2nd District Tax Parcel Numbers 214 01016B and 214 01016 Brief Description of Project: Data Center Campus with 7, two-story buildings totaling 2,240,000 square feet. Development Type: (not selected) Industrial Technological Facility (Including Data Centers) Airports Intermodal Terminals Truck Stops Any other development types Mixed Use Quarries, Asphalt & Cement Plants Attractions & Recreational Facilities Office Waste Handling Facilities Commercial Petroleum Storage Facilities Wastewater Treatment Facilities Hospitals and Health Care Facilities Post-Secondary Schools Water Supply Intakes/Reservoirs Hotels Solar Power Generation Facility Wholesale & Distribution Housing If other development type, describe: Project Size (# of units, floor area, acreage etc.): 7, two-story buildings totaling 2,240,000 square feet Developer: Industrial VI Enterprises, LLC c/o Steven L. Jones Mailing Address: 1441 Dunwoody Village Parkway Address 2: Suite 100 City: Atlanta State: GA Zip: 30338 Telephone: 404-218-2756 Developer Email: SLJ@MJLawFirm.com Is property owner different from developer/applicant? (not selected) Yes No If yes, property owner: LBM Associates Property Owner Email: lindsey.sykes@btcpa.net Is the proposed project entirely located within your local government’s jurisdiction? (not selected) Yes No If no, in what additional jurisdictions is the project located? Is the current proposal a continuation or expansion of a previous DRI? (not selected) Yes No If yes, provide the following information: Project Name: DRI ID: The action being requested of the local government for this project: Rezoning Variance Sewer Water Permit (Including, but not limited to, Certificate of Occupancy, tree removal, business license) Other Special Exception Is this project a phase or part of a larger overall project? (not selected) Yes No If yes, what percent of the overall project does this project/phase represent? Estimated Project Completion Dates: This phase: 2030 Overall project: 2030 Back to Top GRTA DRI Page | ARC DRI Page | RC Links | DCA DRI Page DRI Site Map | Contact