Reno council allows data center, despite environmental group blocks NEWS Reno council upholds first data center, despite environmental group blocks Jaedyn Young Reno Gazette Journal Jan. 29, 2025, 12:25 p.m. PT The Reno City Council voted 5-2 last week to uphold the planning commission’s decision for adding the first data center in Reno, despite the appeal made by the environmental group Sierra Club Toiyabe Chapter to block this development. Webb Data Center is a planned 82,000-square-foot industrial building, adjacent to an Amazon warehouse in North Valleys, off of North Virginia and Stead Boulevard. The planning commission approved a conditional use permit for the development of the data center in December 2024. Sierra Club Toiyabe appealed to the council claiming it was not safe for the environment, and the city put in new zoning guidelines for data centers, without seeking public input first. “The folks who live nearby this data center never had an opportunity to comment on ... the permitting of data centers,” Sierra Club Toiyabe Director Olivia Tanager said. Associate Planner of Development Services Jeff Foster told the planning commission in December that the zoning guidelines were changed in January 2024 through “an administration interpretation” – allowed by Reno municipal code – to add the definition of data centers. Planning Manager Mike Riley said an administrator interpretation can be used to define something if it is not already listed in Reno's code. Riley said the city was receiving "multiple calls" regarding data centers, so they studied up on other jurisdictions and made an interpretation of where to define data centers in the code. The city put data centers under the “warehouse” requirements in the code, with differences like reduced parking requirements, since they were similar. The requirements for data centers were formally adopted, and separately defined in the Title 18 code when the council approved the code adoption earlier this month. The California-based company Ellis Partners also argued that with the plan of their project, they were compliant with all of the city’s master plan’s sustainability requirements for new development. However, Council member Meghan Ebert voted no because she believes they can come up with “something better” when it comes to an environmental sustainability plan. Council member Naomi Duerr also voted no, because she said the developer needs to do more work on reducing the environmental effects of their data center, especially since Reno was pinned the fastest warming city in the nation. “While all the other communities in America are thinking about data centers, we have to be even more thoughtful,” Duerr said. “I think this is a moment where we need to take a stand.” Jaedyn Young covers local government for the Reno Gazette-Journal. Her wages are 100% funded by donations and grants; if you’d like to see more stories like this one, please consider donating at RGJ.com/donate . Send your story ideas and feedback to Jaedyn at jyoung@rgj.com. Featured Weekly Ad