Oldham County drive-in owner says they would move for proposed data center | whas11.com Breaking News More ( ) » Business Sauerbeck Family Drive-In owner says business would move for proposed Oldham County data center The 267-acre hyperscale data center facility was originally going to be located at 3557 North Highway 53, but faced criticism from neighbors. To stream WHAS11 on your phone, you need the WHAS11 app. Download the WHAS11 app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video LOUISVILLE, Ky. — The Sauerbeck Family Drive-In may be moving to a new location as developers for the Oldham County data center are now eyeing the land it sits on. The 267-acre hyperscale data center facility was originally going to be located at 3557 North Highway 53, but faced criticism from neighbors. The facility would support digital services like websites, apps, cloud storage, artificial intelligence and streaming platforms. On Monday, the company shared it's heard those concerns and wants to move the proposed facility to a smaller site located at 3210 DW Griffith Lane. Oldham County Judge-Executive David Voegele said the drive-in would be "expected to re-locate." Owner Stephen Sauerbeck said the proposed data center would not affect the 2025 season, and they will continue operating this year like normal. However, he confirmed the drive-in would move elsewhere in Oldham County if the sale went through. Credit: Sauerbeck Family Drive-In, Facebook Sauerbeck Family Drive-In in La Grange, Kentucky. "This would provide us with an opportunity to rebuild better than ever with two screens, new laser projectors, and a redesigned concession stand to better serve our guests," Sauerbeck said. "We have not yet selected a new site, and that would be contingent on our location selling." Oldham County resident Barry Laws said the original proposal was positioned too close to his home, but he will still fight against the new, proposed location. "We're being invaded by billionaire, trillionaire corporations coming in and trying to take away our bucolic property, our beautiful properties so they can make a buck," Laws said. Sauerbeck said the drive-in theatre was contacted a year ago by brokers looking for land. He said at the time, they weren't looking to sell, but "any opportunity that does sell the land means good things for the drive-in to come.” Credit: OC Data Center The "Project Lincoln: OC Data Center" facility will be located at 3557 North Highway 53 on a 267.3-acre site. He sees it as a "win-win," both for the developers and his business. “I think location-wise, this is a better location than what they previously proposed," Sauerbeck said. The land is currently zoned for industrial use. Developers will seek a permit from the Board of Adjustments as a 'private utility,' according to Judge Executive David Voegele. The county doesn't have any classification in the Planning and Zoning ordinance for a data center, so Voegele said they made the decision to permit applications under a 'private utility.' Laws said that is a loophole to get around zoning regulations, and the land needs to be zoned for Heavy Industrial, the classification that permits major developments like automobile factories. “There’s no loophole here. All of the established processes have been followed," Voegele said. Voegele said everything is being handled according to standards. “Let’s get rid of the ‘what if’ and we’ll get down to concrete determinations of how loud this will be, how much pollution may or may not be coming from it. We don’t know that at this point," Voegele said. He said the new plans will be a significant downsize with only two buildings, and that the development is about advancing modern technology. "This ‘not in my backyard’ circumstance is pretty self-centered," Voegele said. Laws said the community wants "mindful zoning regulations." "Right now, a data center is not mentioned in zoning. So, they’re just hiding under what’s called a private utility," Laws said. Officials said the data center will continue working with local utilities to ensure operations can run safely and smoothly. “We love Oldham County. We don’t want [the data center] anywhere if it doesn’t have mindful zoning," Laws said. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out