Stokes County votes to start proposed data center development over again after lawsuit Advertisement Advertisement Return to Homepage Top Stories: DOJ revives firing squads Golden orb ocean discovery Netanyahu cancer diagnosis $400K Maduro capture bet Israel-Lebanon ceasefire Oklahoma tornado ICE and Border Patrol funding Medical marijuana reclassification Navy secretary ousted Judge blocks Va. voting maps Editor’s Note: The above video is from March 2026 STOKES COUNTY, N.C. (WGHP) — The Stokes County Board of Commissioners voted on Monday night to restart the process a developer must go through to build a proposed data center after a lawsuit against it was filed earlier this year. The commissioners voted to rescind a land rezoning for ELS and void a text amendment to add data centers as a permitted use for heavy manufacturing districts. Advertisement Advertisement Rural Hall Town Council formally opposes data center Engineered Land Solutions released a statement to FOX8 on Tuesday about the update to Project Delta, which is their proposal to build a data center on 1,000 acres in an 1,844-acre area near Walnut Cove. Legal Action Hundreds of people showed up to a Stokes County Commission rezoning meeting in January to stand against the data center. At the time, county commissioners voted to approve rezoning to pave the way for Project Delta to move forward. Now, “staff are directed to remove any zoning code language, map amendments, or permit authorizations resulting directly from those January 12 actions,” according to the Stokes County Board of Commissioners. Advertisement Advertisement A lawsuit alleged the whole rezoning process in January wasn’t done by the book, making it illegal. Stokes County sued over approval of Walnut Cove data center project (WGHP) Southern Coalition for Social Justice filed the lawsuit with the Southern Environmental Law Center. Nonprofits, including the National Hairston Clan, Cleanaire NC, Dan River Basin Association, 7 Directions of Service and over a dozen residents were plaintiffs. “It’s not entirely clear because of the way it was enacted that the county knew entirely what it was doing,” said Anne Harvey David, chief counsel for the Southern Coalition for Social Justice. David is referring to the January meeting when the commission voted on a text amendment to add data centers as a permitted use for heavy manufacturing districts. ELS says the text amendment will now have to be voted on again. Advertisement Advertisement The lawsuit also claimed people were not given a heads-up and only had the chance to speak their minds at the packed January meeting. 20 percent say AI has taken over parts of their job: Survey “Both amendments were not properly noticed, so that made it harder for concerned residents to participate in the process, especially because it basically took place from Thanksgiving to New Year’s,” David said. On Tuesday afternoon, Davis released the following statement regarding the lawsuit: We are glad to see the County recognizing its mistakes and their impact on the community. We’re still evaluating any impact this action has on the lawsuit. Data centers are uniquely problematic for the communities where they are located and it will be important for the county to consider those impacts in evaluating any future applications. There are graves tied to the Hairston Clan on the previously rezoned land, as well as many concerns about water and air pollution. Advertisement Advertisement The proposal came from Triad land developer David Couch’s company, DFC Stokes, and ELS is the data center proponent. ELS Response ELS said that if Project Delta were not completed, the county could potentially lose millions in tax revenue a year. ELS also claims that the project could help raise pay for Stokes County teachers, reduce property taxes and provide millions for schools and parks. The developer plans to resubmit the rezoning application. The full statement ELS sent to FOX8 on Tuesday is provided below: We remain dedicated to being a strong, trusted partner in Stokes County and demonstrating what responsible data center development should look like – that’s what ELS is all about. If Project Delta were to be rolled back, Stokes County stands to lose $20–$40 million in potential annual tax revenue – funding that could otherwise go directly toward schools, teacher pay, public services, and meaningful property tax relief for residents. ELS will continue working closely with County leadership on any technical updates ahead of our rezoning application resubmission. The project is surrounded by existing industrial uses, including solar farms and a power generation facility, and has been responsibly designed with 100-foot buffers, a closed-loop cooling system, and noise limits. At full scale, this single project could help make local teachers among the best-paid in the state, significantly reduce the property tax burden, and still generate millions annually for schools, parks, and other priorities. That level of investment is only possible because of the existing infrastructure in Stokes County – and the jobs and tax revenue should be in Stokes County. Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. For the latest news, weather, sports, and streaming video, head to FOX8 WGHP. View comments About Our Ads Recommended articles QBs Carson Beck, Drew Allar were surprise NFL Draft selections for most. Here's what their paths look like for getting playing time Allar's selection has no impact whatsoever on the team's hope that Aaron Rodgers returns for 2026. As for Beck, among the first three QBs drafted, you could argue he is the winner in terms of surrounding pieces and potential immediate opportunity. Yahoo Sports No Wemby, no problem: 3 takeaways from the Spurs' Game 3 win over the Trail Blazers Here's how the Spurs took a 2-1 series lead without superstar Victor Wembanyama. Yahoo Sports Why Jermod McCoy's slide has gone from potential top-10 pick to last day of the NFL Draft Sources told Yahoo Sports that McCoy's knee also had a repair that included a "bone plug." The concern with the procedure is that over time, it can call for re-operation and the kind of chronic cartilage issues that end athletic careers. Yahoo Sports Sean McVay downplays 'grumpy' demeanor after Rams' selection of Ty Simpson, embraces GM Les Snead McVay's news conference drew more than a few eyebrows after Day 1 of the NFL Draft. Yahoo Sports WWE SmackDown results, grades (April 24): Jacob Fatu stalls for Roman Reigns; Danhausen wins again This week's "WWE SmackDown" kicked off with Jacob Fatu explaining how beating Roman Reigns — the new WWE champion — could be his ticket to success. Uncrowned Wordle hints today for #1,771: Clues and answer for Saturday, April 25 Does Saturday's Wordle (#1,771) have you stumped? Here are some hints and the answer. Yahoo Tech Kayden McDonald overcome with emotion after his long wait in green room ends in 2nd round Kayden McDonald was talked into staying for the second day of the draft. Yahoo Sports 2026 NFL Draft: Penn State QB Drew Allar goes to Steelers as possible Aaron Rodgers heir Drew Allar played in six games last season due to an ankle injury. Yahoo Sports 2026 NFL Draft: Carson Beck goes to Arizona Cardinals with 1st pick of 3rd round Carson Beck had a strong college resume before entering the NFL Draft. Yahoo Sports NFL Draft's Day 2 winners and losers: Browns had a great 2025 rookie class, and an impressive 2026 group too The Browns added talent on both sides of the ball in the second round of the NFL Draft. Yahoo Sports Advertisement