Plans emerge for massive new data center campus near Parkland High School | Western Lehigh County | wfmz.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email REGIONAL LIVE CAMERAS: Allentown: Dorney Park | OtterCam | Birdfeeder Bethlehem: Hotel Bethlehem | Main Street Reading: Penn Street Easton: Downtown Poconos: Jim Thorpe | Stroudsburg Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email Print Copy article link Save S. WHITEHALL TWP., Pa. - A plan for a massive data center complex in Upper Macungie Township may be the first proposal of such magnitude for the Lehigh Valley. But it's certainly not the last. The Lehigh Valley Planning Commission said on Tuesday that it's already received another hyperscale data center application, this time for South Whitehall Township. And it's double the size of the Air Products proposal. The plan calls for six buildings — a total of 5.1 million square feet — at 2493 N. Cedar Crest Blvd., LVPC spokesman Matt Assad told 69 News. The site is currently a large swath of mostly undeveloped land that is across the street from Parkland High School. According to Lehigh County property records, the property is currently owned by the Jeras Corporation. The LVPC's comprehensive planning committee referred to the project as Atlas Industrial during its meeting on Tuesday afternoon. Chief Community and Regional Planner Jill Seitz said the project is currently under review with agencies that include PPL, Lehigh County Authority, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, and the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation. The LVPC will present its findings in January. The South Whitehall Township project was mentioned during the same meeting during which the Air Products proposal was discussed at length. The industrial gas company wants to construct three buildings on a 194-acre site at 7300 Cetronia Road in Upper Macungie Township. Air Products used the site as its headquarters for decades before relocating in 2021. Previously, the company submitted plans to build three warehouses on the site, but the proposal never materialized. The data center complex buildings would total 2.6 million square feet. But the LVPC's draft review identified several shortcomings with the plan. Read the full story here. South Whitehall Township Manager Tom Petrucci told 69 News that plans for the North Cedar Crest Boulevard complex are in a preliminary stage. The proposal has "administrative deficiencies," he said, and so the township won't begin the technical review of the plans until those deficiencies are fixed. "At this time, the earliest [the developer] could appear before the planning commission would be for the February meeting," Petrucci said. Recently, the township created a new zoning district called the Planned Innovation, Research and Technology Overlay district that includes criteria to manage noise, energy uses, security and environmental impacts associated with data centers. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Tags Data Center South Whitehall Township Lehigh Valley Planning Commission Development Hyperscale Data Center Upper Macungie Township Construction Proposal Amy Unger WFMZ.com Reporter Author email Follow Amy Unger Lehigh Valley News ‘Next chapter’: Barnes & Noble College Booksellers to no longer manage Moravian Book Shop Lawmakers, Shapiro admin push to end practice of counties taking Social Security money owed to foster kids Sunrise Chef: Weis Markets shares budget-friendly recipes State Treasurer: No legal authorization to use taxpayer dollars to pay for security upgrades to Gov. Shapiro's home French bakery bringing artisanal pastries, other tasty treats to larger Lehigh Valley location 'Hot Rotisserie Chicken Act' could change SNAP Rules ‘Seinfeld’ star Steve Hytner bringing stand-up show to Emmaus Celebration of America's 250th birthday to be held at Lehigh Valley Heritage Museum Some local standouts hope to hear their names called in NFL Draft Therapist Faust Ruggiero discusses PTSD, some ways on how people can get through it Berks Area News 'Charlie’s superhero': How a Berks County father’s final gift saved lives Nick Singleton bobblehead brings fans to FirstEnergy Stadium on draft night Arena football returns to Reading this weekend after decade-long absence Rain or shine: West Reading Craft Pretzel & Beer Fest still on despite forecast Eagle Scout creates accessible fishing pier at Blue Marsh Lake Godiva plant in Exeter Township celebrates 50-year anniversary Furry Friends: Spartan & Buddy Reading Police seek driver in hit-and-run crash that injured 13-year-old Authorities ID victim of fatal car crash on I-78 in northern Berks County Lawmakers, Shapiro admin push to end practice of counties taking Social Security money owed to foster kids Sign Up for Breaking News Get local Breaking News alerts sent directly to your inbox. Success! An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup. Error! There was an error processing your request. Breaking News Alerts Please enter a valid email address. Sign up Manage your lists Available for Roku, Fire TV, AppleTV WFMZ+ STREAMING APP WATCH NOW! Watch all of WFMZ-TV News and Syndicated Programing 24/7 on your Streaming App enabled TV. Learn More Business Headlines The Latest: Trump sending Witkoff and Kushner to Pakistan for talks with Iran's foreign minister Trump sends envoys to Islamabad as Iran rules out direct talks Former Colorado funeral home owner sentenced to 30 years in case that forced industry crackdown The Latest: Trump sending Witkoff and Kushner to Pakistan for talks with Iran foreign minister Trump dispatches Witkoff and Kushner to Pakistan for new talks with Iran's foreign minister Screenwriters overwhelmingly approve a 4-year contract with Hollywood studios The Iran war could drive up costs for petroleum-derived products like clothes and crayons Justice Department drops criminal probe of Fed chair Powell, likely clearing the way for Warsh US still delivering weapons to Ukraine, Zelenskyy says, as Prince Harry visits Kyiv US soldier charged with using classified intel to win $400K on Maduro raid is granted bond What The Tech? What the Tech? Why AI is a starting point, not the final answer What the Tech? How to protect yourself against 'man in the middle' scam What the Tech? How to protect and preserve your Facebook information, even if you forget the password Entertainment News ‘Gold Rush’: Tony Beets Achieves Season First After More Than 40 Years Mining ‘The White Lotus’: Helena Bonham Carter Exits Season 4, Role to Be Recast — Everything We Know So Far ‘Chicago Fire’ Is Returning for Season 15 — With Major Change ‘Reasonable Doubt’: La La Anthony, Rutina Wesley & More Join Season 4 as Morris Chestnut Sets Return ‘Gen V’ Canceled After 2 Seasons at Prime Video: Stars Break Down What Would Have Happened Next ‘The Interrogator’: Luke Kleintank Joins Stephen Fry in Fox Spy Series ‘Fargo’ Boss Noah Hawley Hints at Season 6 Return: Everything We Know So Far ‘Alien: Earth’ Boss Noah Hawley Teases Peter Dinklage’s ‘Major Role’ in Season 2: Everything We Know So Far ‘The Price Is Right’ Contestant Screams Wildly & Does Jumping Jacks After Winning a Car ‘Will Trent’ Fans Have a Grim Theory About That Cliffhanger WFMZ-TV 69 News provides news, weather, traffic, sports and family programming for the Lehigh Valley, Berks County, Southeastern Pa., Poconos and Western NJ including Allentown, Bethlehem, Easton, Reading, Kutztown, Emmaus, Quakertown, Stroudsburg, Philadelphia, Jim Thorpe, Doylestown, Phillipsburg, Flemington, Wilmington, and Newark. This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. Advertising: Ad Choices | Do Not Sell My Info (cookies): Choices © 2026, Maranatha Broadcasting Company, Inc