Tesla Dojo: The rise and fall of Elon Musk's AI supercomputer | TechCrunch –:–:–:– The first StrictlyVC of 2026 hits SF on April 30. Tickets are going fast. Register now. The first StrictlyVC of 2026 hits SF on April 30. Tickets are going fast. Register now. Close Image Credits: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch Transportation Tesla Dojo: The rise and fall of Elon Musk’s AI supercomputer Rebecca Bellan 9:18 AM PDT · September 2, 2025 For years, Elon Musk has spoken of the promise of Dojo, the AI supercomputer that was supposed to be the cornerstone of Tesla’s AI ambitions. It was important enough to Musk that in July 2024, he said the company’s AI team would “ double down ” on Dojo in the lead-up to Tesla’s robotaxi reveal, which happened in October. After six years of hype, Tesla decided last month to shut down Dojo and disband the team behind the supercomputer in August 2025. Within weeks of projecting that Dojo 2, Tesla’s second supercluster that was meant to be built on the company’s in-house D2 chips, would reach scale by 2026, Musk reversed course, declaring it “an evolutionary dead end.” This article originally set out to explain what Dojo was and how it could help Tesla achieve full-self driving, autonomous humanoid robots, semiconductor autonomy, and more. Now, you can think of it more as an obituary of a project that convinced so many analysts and investors that Tesla wasn’t just an automaker, it was an AI company. Dojo was Tesla’s custom-built supercomputer that was designed to train its “Full Self-Driving” neural networks. Beefing up Dojo went hand-in-hand with Tesla’s goal to reach full self-driving and bring a robotaxi to market. FSD (Supervised) is Tesla’s advanced driver assistance system that’s on hundreds of thousands of Tesla vehicles today and can perform some automated driving tasks, but it still requires a human to be attentive behind the wheel. It’s also the basis of similar technology powering Tesla’s limited robotaxi service that the company launched in Austin this June using Model Y SUVs. Even as Dojo’s raison d’être started to come to life, Tesla failed to attribute its self-driving successes — controversial as they were — to the supercomputer. In fact, Musk and Tesla had barely mentioned Dojo at all over the past year. In August 2024, Tesla began promoting Cortex, the company’s “giant new AI training supercluster being built at Tesla HQ in Austin to solve real-world AI,” which Musk has said would have “massive storage for video training of FSD and Optimus.” In Tesla’s Q4 2024 shareholder deck , the company shared updates on Cortex, but nothing on Dojo. It’s not clear whether Tesla’s Dojo shutdown affects Cortex. Techcrunch event Meet your next investor or portfolio startup at Disrupt Your next round. Your next hire. Your next breakout opportunity. Find it at TechCrunch Disrupt 2026, where 10,000+ founders, investors, and tech leaders gather for three days of 250+ tactical sessions, powerful introductions, and market-defining innovation. Register now to save up to $410. Meet your next investor or portfolio startup at Disrupt Your next round. Your next hire. Your next breakout opportunity. Find it at TechCrunch Disrupt 2026, where 10,000+ founders, investors, and tech leaders gather for three days of 250+ tactical sessions, powerful introductions, and market-defining innovation. Register now to save up to $410. San Francisco, CA | October 13-15, 2026 REGISTER NOW The response to Dojo’s disbanding has been mixed. Some see it as another example of Musk making promises he can’t deliver on that comes at a time of falling EV sales and a lackluster robotaxi rollout. Others say the shutdown wasn’t a failure, but a strategic pivot from a high-risk, self-reliant hardware to a streamlined path that relies on partners for chip development. Dojo’s story reveals what was on the line, where the project fell short, and what its shutdown signals for Tesla’s future. A recap of Dojo’s shutdown Tesla disbanded its Dojo team and shut down the project in mid-August 2025. Dojo’s lead, Peter Bannon, left the company as well, following the departure of around 20 workers who left to start their own AI chip and infrastructure company called DensityAI. Analysts have pointed out that losing key talent can quickly derail a project, especially a highly specialized, internal tech project. The shutdown came a couple of weeks after Tesla signed a $16.5 billion deal to get its next-generation AI6 chips from Samsung. The AI6 chip is Tesla’s bet on a chip design that can scale from powering FSD and Tesla’s Optimus humanoid robots to high-performance AI training in data centers. “Once it became clear that all paths converged to AI6, I had to shut down Dojo and make some tough personnel choices, as Dojo 2 was now an evolutionary dead end,” Musk posted on X , the social media platform he owns. “Dojo 3 arguably lives on in the form of a large number of AI6 [systems-on-a-chip] on a single board.” Tesla’s Dojo backstory Image Credits: Suzanne Cordeiro / AFP / Getty Images Musk has insisted that Tesla isn’t just an automaker, or even a purveyor of solar panels and energy storage systems. Instead, he has pitched Tesla as an AI company, one that has cracked the code to self-driving cars by mimicking human perception. Most other companies building autonomous vehicle technology rely on a combination of sensors to perceive the world — like lidar, radar and cameras — as well as high-definition maps to localize the vehicle. Tesla believes it can achieve fully autonomous driving by relying on cameras alone to capture visual data and then use advanced neural networks to process that data and make quick decisions about how the car should behave. The pitch has been that Dojo-trained AI software will eventually be pushed out to Tesla customers via over-the-air updates. The scale of FSD also means Tesla has been able to rake in millions of miles worth of video footage that it uses to train FSD. The idea there is that the more data Tesla can collect, the closer the automaker can get to actually achieving full self-driving. However, some industry experts say there might be a limit to the brute force approach of throwing more data at a model and expecting it to get smarter. “First of all, there’s an economic constraint, and soon it will just get too expensive to do that,” Anand Raghunathan, Purdue University’s Silicon Valley professor of electrical and computer engineering, told TechCrunch. Further, he said, “Some people claim that we might actually run out of meaningful data to train the models on. More data doesn’t necessarily mean more information, so it depends on whether that data has information that is useful to create a better model, and if the training process is able to actually distill that information into a better model.” Raghunathan said despite these doubts, the trend of more data appears to be here for the short-term at least. And more data means more compute power needed to store and process it all to train Tesla’s AI models. That was where Dojo, the supercomputer, came in. What is a supercomputer? Dojo was Tesla’s supercomputer system that was designed to function as a training ground for AI, specifically FSD. The name is a nod to the space where martial arts are practiced. A supercomputer is made up of thousands of smaller computers called nodes. Each of those nodes has its own CPU (central processing unit) and GPU (graphics processing unit). The former handles overall management of the node, and the latter does the complex stuff, like splitting tasks into multiple parts and working on them simultaneously. GPUs are essential for machine learning operations like those that power FSD training in simulation. They also power large language models, which is why the rise of generative AI has made Nvidia the most valuable company on the planet. Even Tesla buys Nvidia GPUs to train its AI (more on that later). Why did Tesla need a supercomputer? Tesla’s vision-only approach was t