Amazon's $650M Data Center Faces Energy Battle - IEEE Spectrum IEEE.org IEEE Xplore Digital Library IEEE Standards More Sites Sign In Join IEEE Amazon Vies for Nuclear-Powered Data Center Share FOR THE TECHNOLOGY INSIDER Search: Explore by topic Aerospace AI Biomedical Climate Tech Computing Consumer Electronics Energy History of Technology Robotics Semiconductors Telecommunications Transportation IEEE Spectrum FOR THE TECHNOLOGY INSIDER Topics Aerospace AI Biomedical Climate Tech Computing Consumer Electronics Energy History of Technology Robotics Semiconductors Telecommunications Transportation Sections Features News Opinion Careers DIY Engineering Resources More Newsletters Special Reports Collections Explainers Top Programming Languages Robots Guide ↗ IEEE Job Site ↗ For IEEE Members Current Issue Magazine Archive The Institute The Institute Archive For IEEE Members Current Issue Magazine Archive The Institute The Institute Archive IEEE Spectrum About Us Contact Us Reprints & Permissions ↗ Advertising ↗ Follow IEEE Spectrum Support IEEE Spectrum IEEE Spectrum is the flagship publication of the IEEE — the world’s largest professional organization devoted to engineering and applied sciences. Our articles, videos, and infographics inform our readers about developments in technology, engineering, and science. Subscribe About IEEE Contact & Support Accessibility Nondiscrimination Policy Terms IEEE Privacy Policy Cookie Preferences Ad Privacy Options © Copyright 2026 IEEE — All rights reserved. A public charity, IEEE is the world's largest technical professional organization dedicated to advancing technology for the benefit of humanity. Enjoy more free content and benefits by creating an account Saving articles to read later requires an IEEE Spectrum account The Institute content is only available for members Downloading full PDF issues is exclusive for IEEE Members Downloading this e-book is exclusive for IEEE Members Access to Spectrum 's Digital Edition is exclusive for IEEE Members Following topics is a feature exclusive for IEEE Members Adding your response to an article requires an IEEE Spectrum account Create an account to access more content and features on IEEE Spectrum , including the ability to save articles to read later, download Spectrum Collections, and participate in conversations with readers and editors. For more exclusive content and features, consider Joining IEEE . Join the world’s largest professional organization devoted to engineering and applied sciences and get access to all of Spectrum’s articles, archives, PDF downloads, and other benefits. Learn more about IEEE → Join the world’s largest professional organization devoted to engineering and applied sciences and get access to this e-book plus all of IEEE Spectrum’s articles, archives, PDF downloads, and other benefits. Learn more about IEEE → CREATE AN ACCOUNT SIGN IN JOIN IEEE SIGN IN Close Access Thousands of Articles — Completely Free Create an account and get exclusive content and features: Save articles, download collections, and post comments — all free! For full access and benefits, subscribe to Spectrum . CREATE AN ACCOUNT SIGN IN Energy October 2024 Magazine Computing News Climate Tech Amazon Vies for Nuclear-Powered Data Center The deal has become a flash point over energy fairness Andrew Moseman 12 Aug 2024 12 Dec 2024 5 min read Andrew Moseman is the online communications editor at Caltech and a freelance contributor to IEEE Spectrum. The Susquehanna Steam Electric Station, a nuclear power plant near Berwick, Pa., generates electricity for an adjacent data center owned by Amazon Web Services. Kristen Mullen/AP UPDATE 18 NOVEMBER 2024: The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) on 1 November rejected a request to expand power sales from the Susquehanna nuclear plant to the adjacent Amazon data center. The decision surprised investors and adds uncertainty for data center operators seeking to secure large loads of reliable nuclear power , particularly in behind-the-meter arrangements. At a technical conference held the same day as the announcement, FERC authorities stressed the importance of fair distribution of energy, and making sure everyone pays their fair share to support the grid. —IEEE Spectrum Original article from 12 August 2024 follows: When Amazon Web Services paid US $650 million in March for another data center to add to its armada, the tech giant thought it was buying a steady supply of nuclear energy to power it, too. The Susquehanna Steam Electric Station outside of Berick, Pennsylvania, which generates 2.5 gigawatts of nuclear power, sits adjacent to the humming data center and had been directly powering it since the center opened in 2023. After striking the deal, Amazon wanted to change the terms of its original agreement to buy 180 megawatts of additional power directly from the nuclear plant. Susquehanna agreed to sell it. But third parties weren’t happy about that, and their deal has become bogged down in a regulatory battle that will likely set a precedent for data centers , cryptocurrency mining operations, and other computing facilities with voracious appetites for clean electricity. Putting a data center right next to a power plant so that it can draw electricity from it directly, rather than from the grid, is becoming more common as data centers seek out cheap, steady, carbon-free power. Proposals for co-locating data centers next to nuclear power have popped up in New Jersey , Texas, Ohio , and elsewhere. Sweden is considering using small modular reactors to power future data centers. However, co-location raises questions about equity and energy security , because directly-connected data centers can avoid paying fees that would otherwise help maintain grids. They also hog hundreds of megawatts that could be going elsewhere. “They’re effectively going behind the meter and taking that capacity off of the grid that would otherwise serve all customers,” says Tony Clark , a senior advisor at the law firm Wilkinson Barker Knauer and a former commissioner at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), who has testified to a U.S. House subcommittee on the subject. Amazon’s nuclear power deal meets hurdles The dust-up over the Amazon-Susquehanna agreement started in June, after Amazon subsidiary Amazon Web Services filed a notice to change its interconnection service agreement (ISA) in order to buy more nuclear power from Susquehanna’s parent company, Talen Energy. Amazon wanted to increase the amount of behind-the-meter power it buys from the plant from 300 MW to 480 MW. Shortly after it requested the change, utility giants Exelon and American Electric Power (AEP), filed a protest against the agreement and asked FERC to hold a hearing on the matter. Their complaint: the deal between Amazon and the nuclear plant would hurt a third party, namely all the customers who buy power from AEP or Exelon utilities. The protest document argues that the arrangement would shift up to $140 million in extra costs onto the people of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and other states served by PJM, a regional transmission organization that oversees the grid in those areas. “Multiplied by the many similar projects on the drawing board, it is apparent that this unsupported filing has huge financial consequences that should not be imposed on ratepayers without sufficient process to determine and evaluate what is really going on,” their complaint says. Susquehanna dismissed the argument, effectively saying that its deal with Amazon is none of AEP and Exelon’s business. “It is an unlawful attempt to hijack this limited [ISA] amendment proceeding that they have no stake in and turn it into an ad hoc national referendum on the future of data center load,” Susquehanna’s statement said. (AEP, Exelon, Talen/Susquehanna, and Amazon all declined to comment for this story.) More disputes like this will likely follow as more data centers co-locate with clean energy . Kev