Developer applies for 22 more data center buildings in Archbald Skip to content A “No Data Centers” sign along the Eynon Jermyn Road in Archbald on Tuesday, Aug. 12, 2025. Two data center campuses are proposed for the road. (FRANK WILKES LESNEFSKY / STAFF PHOTO) By Frank Lesnefsky | flesnefsky@scrantontimes.com | The Times-Tribune PUBLISHED: October 31, 2025 at 10:50 PM EDT | UPDATED: November 1, 2025 at 3:53 PM EDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... Eynon Jermyn Road in Archbald has quickly become Northeast Pennsylvania’s data center hot spot as developers look to build nearly 30 data center buildings within about a mile. A developer applied with Archbald this month to build 22 data centers across two campuses between Eynon Jermyn Road and Business Route 6, bringing the total number of proposed data centers in the area to 29 buildings spanning four campuses. The latest proposals come from Archbald I LLC, which filed two zoning permit applications Oct. 22 to build two data center campuses — one campus with 18 data center buildings beginning about 40 feet north of Staback Park on Eynon Jermyn Road, and another with four data centers near the border of Archbald and Jermyn above the juncture of Eynon Jermyn Road and Washington Avenue, according to documents obtained by The Sunday Times via a Right to Know Law request filed with Archbald. All 22 buildings would have a roughly 150,000-square-foot footprint, though their heights vary between the two campuses, which are on either side of Project Gravity — another proposed data center campus that will have six buildings between Eynon Jermyn Road and Business Route 6. With the new applications, Lackawanna County is up to eight proposed data center campuses, with five in Archbald, two in Jessup and a large campus in Clifton and Covington townships along Interstate 380. A developer involved with two of Archbald’s data center projects also applied in August to build a data center campus on residential land in Blakely near Business Route 6, Terrace Drive and Keystone Avenue, but that project was quickly withdrawn amid opposition from the community without receiving zoning relief. Half of all data center proposals in the county are now on the same stretch of Eynon Jermyn Road. With all four projects principally permitted by Archbald’s zoning after council was unable to pass legislation in October restricting data centers, if everything moves forward, Eynon Jermyn Road could have nearly 4.73 million square feet of data center buildings based on footprint alone, excluding supplemental buildings and infrastructure such as office buildings, access roads, substations, generator yards and parking lots. That’s enough data centers to cover about 82 football fields. About the projects Archbald I LLC did not include information in its zoning applications identifying the company behind the projects. The limited liability company applied with the address 108 Lakeland Ave., Dover, Delaware, which is the address of Capitol Services, a Delaware registered-agent and corporate-filing firm. Delaware’s corporate filing database shows Archbald I LLC incorporated Oct. 14, just eight days before applying in Archbald. The company does not appear in Pennsylvania’s corporation search. Law firm McNees, Wallace & Nurick of Harrisburg is listed as the contact for the applicant. The larger of the two proposals with its 18 data center buildings would be built across a nearly 17.8-million-square-foot lot, or 408 acres, with about 7 million square feet of impervious area, which includes buildings and paved surfaces. Each data center would be up to 55 feet tall with an accompanying 75,000-square-foot generator yard on the side of each building. The campus would be next to Archbald’s Staback Park and the Archbald Pothole State Park. An attached plan shows an interior road essentially running along the project’s border with the two parks; two data centers would be within 125 feet of the parks. The campus would have 720 parking spaces with entrances on Business Route 6 and Eynon Jermyn Road. The land is zoned for general commercial, commercial/light industrial and general industrial uses, all of which currently permit data centers in Archbald. As part of its application, Archbald I LLC listed every property owner whose land would be purchased to build the data centers. They are: • Anthony Domiano Jr. and the Domiano Family Trust • Domiano Family Trust, with Anthony Domiano signing as trustee • Anthony R. Domiano Jr. and Karen E. Domiano • Carla D. and Joseph Campolieto • Marie Domiano Nieto and Gregory Nieto • New Venture Realty Inc., with David Stafursky signing as president • John J. Shnipes Jr. and Jamie Lynn Shnipes Moving north, Archbald I LLC’s second, smaller campus would have four data center buildings. Like the larger project, each building would have a 150,000-square-foot footprint, but they would be up to 70 feet tall, rather than 55 feet. Plans show the main access road entering near the juncture of Eynon Jermyn Road and Washington Avenue, with a second, smaller road extending off Lackawanna Street in Jermyn. The project would build data centers near homes in Jermyn, including those along Lackawanna Street and Gibson Street. The campus would encompass a nearly 2.9 million-square-foot lot, or just shy of 66 acres, with around 1.5 million square feet of impervious space. It would have 160 parking spaces, and the land is zoned general commercial. The property owners who would sell their land are Jason P. Colachino and Janine Colachino, according to the permit application. The two sites would flank Project Gravity’s six data center buildings. Archbald’s other data centers are: Wildcat Ridge AI Data Center Campus : A 17.2-million-square-foot proposed data center campus spanning nearly 400 mountainside acres along Business Route 6 and Wildcat Road, or Route 247. A firm approached Archbald during a January council work session touting an estimated $2.1 billion investment. The data center campus would consist of 14 three-story-tall data center buildings, each with a 126,500-square-foot footprint, according to conceptual plans for the project. The land is currently zoned for resource conservation and medium/high density residential uses and would need to be rezoned to move forward. Project Gravity : A data center campus that would be built on just over 186 acres between Business Route 6 and Eynon Jermyn Road, with entrances on both roads. Proposed by New York City-based Western Hospitality Partners, operating as Archbald 25 Developer LLC, Project Gravity would have at least six two-story data center buildings, each with a 135,000-square-foot footprint. The same developer has proposed data centers in Indiana and Illinois. The project includes purchasing the Valley View Estates mobile home park, displacing the park’s roughly three dozen residents. Project Boson : Formerly called the Archbald Data & Energy Center, Project Boson will remove the Highway Auto Parts auto salvage yard on Eynon Jermyn Road and build a nearly 620,000-square-foot data center in its place, according to a land development plan obtained Friday by The Sunday Times via a Right to Know Law request. The project initially proposed building three data centers, each under 70 feet tall with a roughly 150,000-square-foot footprint, but it subsequently merged those buildings into one larger facility. Project Gravity and Project Boson are tied to Jim Marzolino, the president of Kriger Construction. Marzolino was also a co-developer of the now-withdrawn Blakely data center proposal, along with Alpesh “Al” Patel of the Al’s Quick Stop convenience store chain. Marzolino signed the initial zoning permit application for the Archbald Data & Energy Center in April, with Dave Stiles of Kriger Construction signing an Aug. 18 subdivision/land development application form for Project Boson. Marzolino intends to sell the Project Gravity land to Western Hospitality Partners. Western Hospita