Opposition mounts to proposed large data center in Edgecombe County | WUNC News Skip to main content Search Query Show Search © 2026 WUNC News 120 Friday Center Dr Chapel Hill, NC 27517 919.445.9150 | 800.962.9862 Menu Show Search Search Query Donate Play Live Radio Next Up: 0:00 0:00 0:00 0:00 Available On Air Stations On Air Now Playing WUNC News On Air Now Playing BBC World Service All Streams Opposition mounts to proposed large data center in Edgecombe County WFAE | By Zachary Turner Published November 25, 2025 at 1:58 PM EST Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Listen • 1:07 Edgecombe County The Edgecombe County Board of Commissioners will meet again on Dec. 1. A proposed data center in eastern North Carolina would be one of the largest in the Southeast, if approved. But it has met local resistance. Energy Storage Solutions is a data center developer that has built smaller campuses in North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia. The company plans to break ground on a 300-acre site in Rocky Mount early next year if county commissioners approve selling the land. This $19 billion, 900-megawatt data center would require energy equal to the total output of the Shearon Harris nuclear reactor in Wake County. County commissioners voted earlier this month to amend zoning rules to provide more flexibility for data center construction. Nearby residents formed Edgecombe Neighbors for Data Center Accountability , opposing the sale until they can get more information about the project’s “community economic benefits, projected impact on resident energy costs, and concerns for long-term environmental and health risks.” “I would hope the County Commissioners consider their moral obligation to their constituents with noise pollution, water usage and pollution, and other unknowns,” said Janice Bulluck, an organizer with the community opposition group. “In the long term, this is not going to be in the best interest for the residents.” Community members plan to meet Tuesday night at 5:30 p.m. at Mt. Galilee Primitive Baptist Church in Rocky Mount. The Edgecombe County Board of Commissioners will meet again on Dec. 1. Sign up for our weekly climate newsletter Email Address Climate Newsletter from WFAE's climate reporter Zachary Turner. SUPPORT LOCAL NEWS WFAE remains committed to our mission: to serve our community with fact-based, nonpartisan journalism. But our ability to do that depends on the strength of the financial response from the communities we serve. Please support our journalism by contributing today. DONATE NOW Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Zachary Turner Zachary Turner is a climate reporter and author of the WFAE Climate News newsletter. He freelanced for radio and digital print, reporting on environmental issues in North Carolina. See stories by Zachary Turner More Stories High Point Market begins this weekend David Ford High Point Market kicks off this weekend with hundreds of vendors in 180 buildings and more than 100 countries represented. State audit finds $5M in improper aid at North Carolina A&T April Laissle An investigation found the university improperly distributed $5 million in financial aid over an eight-year period. Blaze causes ‘significant fire damage’ to new Salvage Station venue Felicia Sonmez No injuries were reported, according to the Asheville Fire Department. The cause of the fire remains under investigation. New arrest, details announced in Leinbach Park shooting investigation April Laissle Investigators say the incident began as a planned fight between two teenage girls that drew a crowd of about 15 people. Western North Carolina is deep in drought, and the clock is ticking Helen Chickering From Fontana Lake to private wells in Bryson City, a state climate panel this week laid out what the expanding drought means for the mountains.