Aligned breaks ground on 540MW data center campus in Texas - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Aligned breaks ground on 540MW data center campus in Texas Company starts work on Project Caprock near Lubbock April 10, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say US data center firm Aligned has broken ground on a new campus in Texas. The company this week announced work has started on Project Caprock, a 540MW campus located on 313 acres outside Abernathy in Hale County. – Aligned At full build-out, the site will total 1.65 million square feet (153,290 sqm) of capacity across six facilities. The first building at the site, LBB‑01, is set to go live in Q1 2027. “We are proud to bring next-generation infrastructure to Hale County,” said Andrew Schaap, CEO of Aligned. “Our expansion into Northwest Texas proves we can meet both the increased capacity demands from customers while also meeting community demands for the responsible construction of AI infrastructure.” Aligned said it is building and funding the dedicated electrical infrastructure required to power its Caprock campus to protect local ratepayers, and is working with Xcel Energy. The site will use Aligned’s proprietary DeltaFlow~ liquid cooling technology. “Aligned’s decision to build this state-of-the-art campus in our area is a transformative moment for our city’s economic future,” said Julie Arrington, city manager of Abernathy. “This project goes far beyond immediate job creation and capital investment; it is about creating sustainable, long-term opportunities right here at home. Aligned has proven to be a great partner – bringing innovation to our doorstep while respecting our community’s rural heritage and conserving our vital resources.” Aligned has campuses in Chicago , Illinois; Dallas , Texas; Salt Lake City , Utah; Phoenix , Arizona; and Northern Virginia . The company has further sites in development in Maryland , Ohio , Illinois , Pennsylvania , and Virginia . Outside of the US, Aligned acquired LATAM-based OData in May 2023 and has a footprint in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and Mexico. It has also invested in Canadian firm QScale . Macquarie Asset Management sold Aligned to a consortium comprising the AI Infrastructure Partnership (AIP), MGX, and BlackRock-owned Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP) last year for $40bn . News that Aligned was targeting Hale County surfaced in February . TeraWulf is also targeting a data center campus in Abernathy, set to host AI cloud firm Fluidstack. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 29 Oct 2025 Aston Martin F1 Team plans new data center at Silverstone, UK, race track Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America North America data center report 25 Mar 2026 Cipher Digital secures hyperscale tenant under 15-year lease Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Abernathy Aligned Aligned Data Centers Hale County Project Caprock Texas Comments