De Soto City Council to consider new data center project Skip to content Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google DE SOTO, Kan. (KCTV) — On Thursday, the De Soto City Council will begin the process of whether or not to issue up to $50 billion in incentives for a data center project to come to town. New documents for Thursday’s meeting reveal the city’s plans. It states there are three items the council will take up as part of the developer, Mount Sunflower Properties, LLC’s data center project. The site of a proposed data center in De Soto, Kansas, next to the new Panasonic plant. (KCTV5) Those three items are: Public Hearing on the City’s Intent to provide property tax abatement and sales tax exemption on construction materials, equipment (including servers), furnishings, and certain labor services on up to $50 billion in Industrial Revenue Bonds (“IRBs”) Consideration of a Development Agreement addressing the details of the Project Consideration of Resolution No. 2073 stating the City’s intent to grant future property tax abatements as phases of the Project are presented to the Council. Importantly, consistent with the City’s approach with Panasonic, the Project does not include expenses or out-of-pocket money from the City, rather the City is simply issuing its bonds (to be paid back by Developer and/or its investors and financial institutions) and sales tax exemptions for construction materials, equipment (including servers), furnishings, and certain labor services that are part of the Project. By approving the Resolution of Intent and Development Agreement, the City’s credit rating is not affected. According to the document, this will be a large-scale, multi-phase data center campus. It is set to be located just west of the existing Flint warehouse near Edgerton Road, 103rd Street, Kansas Highway 10, and 95th Street. This would be near the Panasonic Plant. Proposed data center site in De Soto, Kansas, near the Panasonic plant. (KCTV5) For the project, the developer must invest $700 million over seven years. The data center would use a large amount of water and energy and require sewer improvements, including capacity expansion. According to the Kansas Secretary of State’s business search, Mount Sunflower Properties, LLC, was formed in 2024 and is registered with an office in Topeka. It is labeled as ‘Corporation Service Company.’ It also shows the company’s jurisdiction is in Delaware. Read the full document: De Soto City Council to consider $50 billion in incentives for data center project by zoe.shriner This project comes just a month after the world’s largest electric vehicle battery plant opened in De Soto by Panasonic . Crews started working on it in November 2022, and it costs around $4 billion. PREVIOUS COVERAGE: Panasonic opens country’s largest EV battery plant in De Soto, Kansas The De Soto City Council is set to take this up on Thursday at 7 p.m. at City Hall. Copyright 2025 KCTV. All rights reserved. Most Read Roadkill found inside Chinese restaurant’s freezer, police say Chiefs defensive backs coach Dave Merritt bonds out after domestic battery arrest Severe threat has ended, pleasant & dry Friday Fatal crash leaves sign down, truck jackknifed across southbound I-35 KCK police officer charged with cocaine, meth possession Stadium saga settled: Royals announce plans for downtown ballpark, district in Crown Center area Pedestrian killed after suspected drunk driver jumps curb, hits Kansas City billboard 7-year-old girl overdoses on drugs found in her slushie, police say Latest News Kansas City police investigate Friday night homicide First Warn 5 weekend forecast Chiefs pick R Mason Thomas at No. 40 KC Lebanese Mexican taqueria blends cuisine, culture Phil Levota says he will drop out of the Jackson County Executive race KC Lebanese Mexican taqueria blends cuisine, culture Kearney storm damage Fans hope Royals downtown ballpark brings new opportunities for everyone