Vantage announces 224MW data center campus in Reno, Nevada - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Vantage announces 224MW data center campus in Reno, Nevada First two of four buildings pre-leased July 16, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Vantage Data Centers is planning a new campus in Reno, Nevada. The company this week announced its entry into the Nevada market with a 224MW campus in Storey County just outside of Reno. Sited on nearly 137 acres, the NV1 campus will include four multi-story data centers totaling more than 1 million square feet. Nearly $3 billion is set to be invested in the project. The first two buildings are fully leased, with the first building scheduled to open in the second quarter of 2026. Vantage announces move into Reno – Vantage Data Centers Vantage said NV1 will support densities ranging from 360W to more than 720W per square foot and support both traditional air-cooling as well as liquid cooling, utilizing a closed-loop chiller system to reduce water usage. A 500MW on-site substation is also planned, according to Vantage’s website. Each building will feature two meet-me rooms. “As the global race for AI dominance continues, Vantage is leading the delivery of digital infrastructure to support the innovation and applications of the world’s largest technology enterprises,” said Dana Adams, president, North America at Vantage Data Centers. “The scale and pace at which our customers need business-critical capacity is at an all-time high. Nevada provided us a strategic opportunity to accelerate time-to-market for these customers while supporting the local economy through the creation of long-term jobs and tax revenue. The warm welcome we’ve received from the state is overwhelming, and we look forward to advancing the region’s growing digital hub together.” News that Vantage was eyeing expansion into Reno surfaced in November 2024 after the company was granted tax abatements on a planned data center project in Storey County. “We’re proud to welcome Vantage Data Centers to the Tahoe-Reno Industrial Center and Storey County,” said Austin Osborne, Storey County manager. “Their arrival marks another important milestone in the growth of our region’s digital infrastructure, bringing both significant economic development and high-quality jobs to our community. This project further solidifies Storey County’s role as a key hub for forward-thinking industries, and we look forward to the long-term opportunities and partnerships it will create.” Two separate applications, from March and November last year, suggest Vantage Data Centers NV11, LLC and Vantage Data Centers NV12, LLC are looking to develop a site at the southeast corner of Electric Avenue and USA Parkway. The company will invest $150 million in NV11 and $254 million in NV12, to be located at 100 & 200 Electric Avenue in McCarren/Sparks. The NV11 site would begin operations by Q4 2026, while the second application suggests NV12 would be live by Q1 2026. Further specifications weren’t included, but two LEED filings suggest NV11 will span 489,125 sq ft (45,440 sqm), while NV12 will total 259,540 sq ft (24,110 sqm). A further filing suggests another building, NV13 , is also planned. DataCenterHawk suggests a fourth, NV14 , is also in the works. DigitalBridge-owned Vantage operates or is developing data centers across the US, including in Ohio, Georgia, Texas, California, Virginia, Arizona, and Washington. The likes of PowerHouse, Google, Apple, EdgeCore, Novva, and Tract are developing in Nevada’s Storey County. Switch, DataBank, Microsoft, and Centra Digital (formerly DeepEdge) are also present in Nevada. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 04 Mar 2026 Core Scientific buys land outside Dallas, Texas, for 285MW data center campus Episode Tech showcase: Pre-integrated modular containment for faster AI-ready data center deployment More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 26 Mar 2026 Data center could be built near Detroit’s Coleman Young Airport Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags NV11 NV12 Nevada Reno Sparks Storey County Vantage Vantage Data Centers Comments