Warrenton Town Council approves Amazon data center proposal | Business | fauquiernow.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Close Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save The Warrenton Town Council voted in the pre-dawn hours Wednesday to approve Amazon Data Services' request for a special-use permit to build a 220,000-square-foot data center at the intersection of Blackwell Road and Lee Highway in Warrenton. The decision signified the end of Amazon’s involvement in the public approval process, which began in April 2022 when the tech giant filed its application with the town . When constructed, it will be the third data center located in Fauquier County. But after the vote, many residents who attended the meeting vowed the fight was not over as they exited the Fauquier High School auditorium around 2:30 a.m. Voting in favor of the resolution were council members Heather Sutphin, Ward 2, Brett Hamby, Ward 3, James Hartman, Ward 4, and Jay Heroux, Ward 5. Ward 2 representative William Semple and At-Large council members Paul Mooney and David McGuire opposed. At-Large council member David McGuire voted against the proposal to build a data center in Warrenton during the council's Feb. 14 meeting. James Jarvis | FauquierNow Noise concerns linger On Jan. 10, the council held a public hearing during which hundreds of residents poured into Town Hall to express opposition to the data center, including former Planning Commissioner Ali Zarabi, who abstained from voting on the proposal in early December. The council decided to table a vote on the proposal until February so Amazon could review several preconditions drafted by staff, including noise, safety, and environmental mitigation measures. The town also added several guidelines – such as an annual noise test, site plan and Certificate of Occupancy permit for each development phase – to ensure Amazon complies with the town’s ordinances. Close 10 images capturing this week's historic Warrenton Town Council meeting The Warrenton Town Council voted in the pre-dawn hours Wednesday to approve Amazon Data Services' request for a special-use permit to build a 220,000-square-foot data center at the intersection of Blackwell Road and Lee Highway in Warrenton. FauquierNow reporter James Jarvis captured these images. But during the council’s Tuesday morning work session, Semple said he saw several flaws with the application, including the noise mitigation measures, which was one of the biggest concerns expressed by residents. Semple said he was concerned an annual noise test needed to be more frequent for the town to determine whether the data center complies with its ordinance the other 364 days out of the year. “You could be in noncompliance, and nobody would know about it,” Semple said. “And that's really not much of a protection for the health, safety, and welfare of our citizens.” But Jay Reinke, who is part of Amazon Web Services’ real estate development team, said that since the noise level was not going to change throughout the year, the test “should be indicative of all 365 days.” Presenting a hypothetical scenario, Semple asked Reinke whether the town’s noise ordinance would be violated if Amazon had to turn on its approximately 24 generators in case of a power outage. Reinke said if this happened, there is a possibility 24 generators running simultaneously would result in a violation. Still, he argued, the chance of a countywide power outage is “probably once in a lifetime.” Ward 2 council member Bill Semple voted against the Amazon data center proposal on Feb. 14. James Jarvis | FauquierNow John Foote, Amazon’s legal counsel and a land-use attorney with the Arlington-based firm Walsh Colucci Lubeley & Walsh, said nothing would stop the town from “running noise tests whenever it feels like.” But he noted doing a sound test every day wouldn’t “really tell you much” due to ambient noise surrounding the facility from other sources like traffic In the Amazon-commissioned sound study conducted by Warrenton-based Polysonics Acoustics & Technology Consulting Corporation, the company determined the “proposed mechanical equipment will meet the Zoning Ordinance, provided the proposed mitigation is used at the chillers and generators.” While presenting the report to council members, Chris Karner, a senior consultant for Polysonics, said Warrenton has one of the strictest noise ordinances he’s seen in his decade-plus career. “If you look through the report, the background noise is more the data center, and the traffic noise is more of a source,” Karner said. “The traffic is 30 [decibels] higher than the data center.” Debate over 'rural character' Beyond noise concerns, many of the approximately 130 people signed up to speak – including renowned 92-year-old actor Robert Duvall – pleaded with council members to consider how a data center might impact the town’s “rural character” and open the door to other more data centers. Oscar-winning actor Robert Duvall waits his turn to speak about the proposed Amazon data center during the Warrenton Town Council public hearing on Feb. 14, 2023. James Jarvis | FauquierNow Peggy DiVincenzo, who lives on Falmouth Street on the opposite side of town from where the data center is proposed, said she moved from Fairfax County five years ago to “have a sense of community again” similar to the small town where she grew up. DiVincenzo said constructing a data center would be a “turning point” for Warrenton. “I think that you have this tremendous opportunity to be true to the vision of what Warrenton was set out to be many years ago,” she said. “But also to prevent the sense of community from dissipating and the sense of dissatisfaction from becoming prominent.” But council member Heroux argued that constructing a data center would not threaten the county's rural character. He said the Amazon proposal is in a prime location to generate economic growth. Warrenton resident Peggy DiVincenzo speaks during town council's Feb. 14 public hearing on the Amazon data center proposal. James Jarvis | FauquierNow “That's why we have a service district, and that is done so the remainder of the county can remain rural, as I think we're doing a good job doing,” he said. “The [Amazon special-use permit] does not ruin the rural and historical interests of the town. The interests of the town are commercial.” Heroux added, “We have great partners, such as Country Chevrolet, Sheetz, CVS, and the Hampton Inn. They employ our citizens. They pay taxes. There are over 300 [street] lights – I counted them – of all types at night as you enter the town of Warrenton. That's not rural. It's busy, and it's loud.” Another Fauquier resident, McKenzie Miller, who lives in Marshall District just south of Warrenton, said during the hearing she couldn’t understand why something else could not go on that property, namely affordable housing, instead of a data center. “I think if Amazon wants to buy this place, they can build affordable housing,” Miller said. “Why can't you guys spend this much time agonizing over affordable housing?” Fighting back tears, Miller argued this isn’t the first time council members have chosen not to listen to residents and went forward with a plan that did not have a consensus. She referenced the 2040 Comprehensive Plan, which received notable opposition. Miller urged the council to avoid repeating the same mistake. With tears in her eyes, Fauquier County resident McKenzie Miller pleads with the Town Council not to approve Amazon's application for a special use permit to build a 220,000-square-foot data center several miles from her home south of Warrenton. James Jarvis | FauquierNow “It just rattles me to my core the fact that I stood in front of you guys during the Comprehensive Plan, and I felt like you were just looking at me but n