EdgeConneX Data Center in Sacramento, California Search Search Home / Americas / Sacramento, CA SAC01 Sacramento Data Center Empower Your Edge in Sacramento The Sacramento EdgeConneX Edge Data Center® (EDC) has been purpose-built and precisely located in order to provide a secure colocation facility for customers wishing to deliver content and applications to local-market consumers, with the lowest possible latency. Partnering with network and cable operators at the local level, our carrier neutral facility guarantees the shortest and fastest routes for delivering content to local market subscribers (consumer and enterprise ) and Internet customers. The EdgeConneX Sacramento SAC01 data center earned ENERGY STAR® certification from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. This certification represents proven, verified superior energy performance over a 12-month period. In addition, EdgeConneX installed a rooftop solar installation at this facility. The solar array developed with Madison Energy aims to reduce our carbon footprint and decrease operational energy costs, providing clean power directly to SAC01. The EdgeConneX Sacramento data center also achieved a UL 2799 Landfill Diversion certification. Download Data Sheet Request a Virtual Tour Capacity Quote Our Sacramento Data Center At a Glance Facts and figures you need to know about our Sacramento data center. Size 28,500 sq ft facility 25 miles from Sacramento International Airport Within 14 miles of downtown SAC 6,500 sq ft of raised floor for tenant racks Data Center Specifications and Details for Sacramento Space 28,500 sq ft facility 6,500 sq ft of raised floor for tenant racks Within 14 miles from downtown SAC and 25 miles from Sacramento International Airport Customer work space available Space available for secure customer storage WiFi network access and cell phone repeaters/boosters throughout the facility Power Concurrently maintainable power in a minimum of an N+1 configuration to include: PDU UPS Generators Capable of 20+kW per cabinet Capable of 600+ watts per sq ft Ghost space not required for cooling power dense installations Real-time branch circuit monitoring Cooling Temperature and humidity monitored, controlled and managed to industry standards 30 inch raised/under floor forced air plenum N+1 CRACs located in separate suites, maximizing customer-designated areas Security Multi-stage security containment systems that use PIN and live video authentication Mantraps and strictly enforced protocols regarding entry access 24/7 Color CCTV/video surveillance and >90-day online video storage Interior managed security zones National network operations center for security management 24/7 NOC services Network Building POEs are diverse, with a variety offiber conduits to physically diverse MMR’s Astound/Wave, CloudFlare, Comcast, Comcast Business, Console Connect, Lumen, NinjaIX, Nitel, Uprise Fiber, WhiteSky, Zayo Interconnection services available Fire Suppression Pre-action, zoned dry-pipe sprinkler systems with zoned maintenance aisles and separate suites Optional Services Remote hands services for break fixes, configuration and troubleshooting EdgeConneX Services: design, build, implement and maintain your equipment infrastructure HIPAA, SOC 2 Type 2, PCI-DSS, ISO 27001 compliant EdgeOS Our unique self-service management application, offering visibility into every aspect of data center operations across all EdgeConneX facilities, from a single pane of glass. Learn more . Learn More About Our Sacramento Data Center Use this form to request more information or schedule a data center tour in Sacramento. Or, call us at +1.866.304.3217. X/Twitter This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. First Name * Last Name * Email * Message CAPTCHA download × Close Panel