Opponents of $6 billion Oldham County data center voice concerns | whas11.com Breaking News More ( ) » Local News Oldham County residents oppose data center being built, $6 billion project now on hold The $6 billion data center project on the county's rural land is application is under a 'private utility,' according opposing residents. Credit: Photo: Levi Hammer/WHAS11 LA GRANGE, Ky. — The proposal for a $6 billion data center is still on hold by the Oldham County Fiscal Court, but We Are Oldham County, comprised of residents in opposition for the development, are still making noise. The company, Western Hospitality, has applied to put what's called 'Project Lincoln' in the rural land of northern La Grange. The hyperscale data center will be inside 267 acres with buildings estimated at 75 feet tall, and will fill the area with humming generators as it fuels technologies like AI. Dave Oberg's property sits right next to where Project Lincoln is proposed to develop. He said he would be able to hit the development with a sling shot, sitting on his back deck. The development would replace fields where he sees a rafter of turkeys. “They call it a data center," said Oberg. "It’s really an industrial complex.” Oberg and other residents in We Are Oldham County are concerned about the environmental and financial consequences of the data center. They have also called into question the application. Western Hospitality applied as a "private utility," which residents believe is a round-about way of avoiding the zoning of land for agricultural and conversation purposes. Credit: OC Data Center The "Project Lincoln: OC Data Center" facility will be located at 3557 North Highway 53 on a 267.3-acre site. “They’re trying to circumvent the normal process of the planning and zoning procedure," said president of We Are Oldham County, Nate Oberg. "We can all agree that a project like this doesn’t offer a whole lot of benefit. It’s a loophole in the regulation.” Nate Oberg spoke to a crowd of people wearing red shirts, in support of the group and its cause, Wednesday night. Judge Executive David Voegele was in attendance. "I think [the private utility application] was a good, based attempt to put it somewhere," said Voegele. Voegele stood by a change in the location. "I'm not in favor of this location," Voegele said. "I've told the owners of that completely. But, I'm not willing to say there's not a place in Oldham County where a data center would be appropriate." Representatives are interested in what's going on locally. Republican State Senator Lindsey Tichenor who covers Oldham County, posted a video to Facebook where she went to a similar development site in Jeffersonville. She expressed she does not support the Oldham County project. Tichenor believes this is a wake up call for localities that don't have these regulations in place. "It opens up not only Oldham County but other counties in the state to the same types of proposals to take up agricultural land for these industrial facilities," Tichenor said. "I think it would set a precedent in Oldham County and for the rest of the state that we need to be very cautious of." Residents said they wouldn't be opposed to a data center elsewhere in the county. Judge Executive Voegele said there are other locations in the county such as their office park and industrial property along commerce parkway that would better suit the development. The Board of Adjustments has Project Lincoln on the agenda. That meeting is scheduled for May 15 at 9am. Close Ad To stream WHAS11 on your phone, you need the WHAS11 app. Download the WHAS11 app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video In Other News LMDC inmates share stories through Portland Museum art Before You Leave, Check This Out