EnCap-backed Quantica launches to offer powered land to data centers in the US - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel EnCap-backed Quantica launches to offer powered land to data centers in the US Texas-based company led by former Talen CFO July 29, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Investment firm EnCap has launched a new venture focused on providing land and power to data centers in the US. Quantica Infrastructure, LLC, officially launched this week, focused on delivering shovel-ready sites integrating renewable energy, traditional grid power, and network connectivity. – Quantica Infrastructure Texas-based Quantica is backed by the Energy Transition arm of EnCap Investments LP (EnCap), an energy-focused growth capital firm “Hyperscale and AI growth are demanding better solutions for power, land, and network connectivity,” says John Chesser, CEO and founder of Quantica Infrastructure. “Quantica unlocks new opportunities by delivering shovel-ready, network-ready sites with dedicated renewable energy and resilient power supplies, so our customers can focus on innovation, not infrastructure logistics.” Chesser was previously CFO of Talen Energy, an energy firm that briefly moved into developing data centers before selling its debut project in Pennsylvania to Amazon. Prior to Talen, he was treasurer of TerraForm Power Inc., a renewables firm acquired by Brookfield. “Quantica’s platform is the solution needed to break through current barriers to AI and digital infrastructure expansion,” said Jim Hughes, managing partner of EnCap. “ Quantica’s unique platform offers us the opportunity to deploy capital in all aspects of the digital infrastructure economy – renewable power generation, real estate, and network. We are excited about the company’s existing project pipeline as it rapidly scales with the tailwinds pushing the digital economy.” Details of any planned campuses weren’t shared. The company said it aims to provide master-planned sites located close to clean energy (wind, solar, and battery storage) and grid interconnection points that also offer good fiber access. Update : NorthWestern Energy Group has since announced it has signed a letter of intent to provide energy services for Quantica at a proposed data center development in Montana. NorthWestern said the first predicted load for Phase I development totals 500MW, with phased growth to 1 gigawatt. Initial electric service could begin as early as 2026, reaching 500MW by 2030. “We’re actively working with Quantica to optimize the transmission infrastructure and generation resources needed to support this project,” said Brian Bird, President and CEO of NorthWestern Energy. “Montana’s clean energy portfolio, reliable grid, and competitive rates make it an attractive location for new industries. This collaboration reflects our commitment to innovation, economic development, and delivering high-quality energy services.” Founded in 1988, EnCap Investments is a provider of growth capital to the US energy sector. The firm has raised 25 institutional investment funds totaling approximately $47 billion. The EnCap Energy Transition platform was founded in 2019, focused on investing in renewable energy and battery storage, it currently manages more than $2.7 billion across two funds. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 01 Apr 2026 Telis Energie Deutschland plans 500MW data center in Lower Saxony, Germany Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 17 Dec 2025 ZTE cooperating with US gov't amid bribery allegations Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags EnCap Investments John Chesser Montana NorthWestern Energy Quantica Infrastructure Talen Energy Comments