Merrillville committee endorses data center • Northwest Indiana Business Magazine Skip to content Merrillville’s Data Center Citizen Advisory Committee endorsed a proposed data center at a recent meeting. Karis Critical is one of several companies that has approached Merrillville about building a data center. Karis Critical’s project would have up to nine buildings on nearly 180 acres of property on 101st Ave. The advisory committee includes nine residents, town officials and other development professionals. At the meeting, the committee discussed the project’s possible economic benefits, employment opportunities, noise, power consumption, backup generators and safety measures. Committee members independently conducted research and questioned Karis representatives. “The preparation and thoughtful participation they brought to the discussion were invaluable,” said Rick Bella, town council president, in a press release . “We addressed many of the common concerns and misconceptions surrounding data centers, and it became evident that many of these fears have already been mitigated through the advancements in modern data center design.” Karis representatives are seeking a zone change for the site. The project also requires approval from the plan commission and power authorization from NIPSCO. “We are so thankful for the Town of Merrillville allowing us to participate in this advisory committee – it is very rare for a town to show this level of passion and engagement in the process, and we are so excited to continue moving this transformative project forward,” Brett Rogers, Karis CIO/head of data centers, said. “It is a testament to what makes Merrillville a leader in Northwest Indiana.” Shawn Pettit, town councilman and redevelopment commission president, has been associated with other developments such as the AmeriPlex at the Crossroads and the Silos at Sanders Farm. He said the Karis project aligns with those initiatives. “I’m very excited with the investment,” Pettit said. “It’s a low impact/high reward development for the Town of Merrillville. It will also create job opportunities for the Merrillville residents, which is always a priority for myself and the rest of the town council.” Brian Dering, plan commission member, said the Karis project could generate $1 million in annual property tax revenue per building. He emphasized that data centers would minimally impact town services. “In the 21st century, data centers have shown immense growth and investment in other parts of the country and have proven to be good neighbors to their communities,” Dering said. “Now, Merrillville has the opportunity to lead the way forward by adding this valuable resource here in Northwest Indiana.” Author Kerry Sapet Kerry Sapet has been a freelance writer for more than 20 years. She has written for newspapers, magazines, websites and the children’s publishing market. Sapet is the author of more than 30 books for children and young adults. She has a degree in journalism from Ohio University’s Honors Tutorial College. Sapet is a Bloomington, Indiana, native, and lives in the Chicago area. View all posts Share on social Related Posts Munster High School student Brandon Walker won $1,000 for his Course Caddy pitch at this year's STARTedUP Challenge Region 4 pitch competition April 23. Read More » Leadership Northwest Indiana's 50th cohort included 41 graduates who spent eight months learning from business leaders and educators. Read More » Scroll to Top