Google’s plan to build on protected wetlands at Fort Wayne data center greenlit Skip to content Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google FORT WAYNE, Ind. (WPTA) - Google’s request to build on protected wetlands at its Fort Wayne data center has been approved by a state agency. BACKGROUND: Google files application to build on protected wetlands at site of Fort Wayne data center | Story continues below previous coverage The Indiana Department of Environmental Management approved Google’s plan to fill more than two acres of wetlands with soil so the company can continue building its Project Zodiac data center campus. They intend to build five buildings and associated infrastructure on land near East Paulding and Adams Center roads. Hatchworks LLC, which filed the request on behalf of the tech giant, outlined plans to offset the wetlands removal by purchasing 2.48 acres of unforested wetland credit and 1.58 acres of forested wetland credit from the Openings Wetland Mitigation Bank . Google files application to build on protected wetlands at site of Fort Wayne data center (Provided) A public comment period was open from Aug. 12 to Sept. 11, during which multiple people wrote in to share their opinions on the request, with the vast majority opposing it. “Our ecosystems are on the brink and Indiana has prioritized destroying these vital and fragile habitats,” someone against the request wrote. “Protected wetlands should remain protected for not only the species that depend on them but the communities that also benefit from the resources they provide for clean water.” “Not for corporations to pollute, destroy and exploit.” “These data centers that have gone up around the country have destroyed the communities they’re in,” another person in opposition of the application wrote. “Why should anyone rubber-stamp higher utility bills and less usable resources for actual residents of the area, let alone the destruction of important wetlands?” RELATED: Google breaks ground on $2B Fort Wayne data center, bringing 200 jobs to the area “Google’s AI is unnecessary garbage and every community they approach should absolutely say no to their requests.” Despite multiple requests from residents to hold a public hearing on the application, none were. Google is required to buy the 2.48 acres of unforested wetland credit from the Openings Wetland Mitigation Bank by Sept. 16, 2027. If the Openings Wetland Mitigation Bank does not have the land available for the company to purchase, the remaining mitigation may be purchased from the Maumee Service Area of IDNR’s InLieu Fee Program. To be the first to get the latest breaking news alerts, download the 21Alive News App here . You can also catch the latest news from 21Alive anytime on Roku, Amazon Fire TV, and Apple TV . Just search “21Alive” in the app store and download the app to your device. Copyright 2025 WPTA. All rights reserved. Latest News News Huntington University hosts premiere for third feature film, ‘Seniors’ Updated : 3 hours ago News Huntington University hosts premiere for third feature film, ‘Seniors’ Updated : 4 hours ago | By Eddie Reksiedler The movie is centered around the unlikely friendship between a troubled war veteran and a high school senior doing community service. News Firefighters respond to church fire northeast of downtown Fort Wayne Updated : 4 hours ago | By WPTA Staff According to the Fort Wayne Fire Department, firefighters were dispatched to the Three Rivers Worship Center around 7:30 p.m. Friday. News Humane Fort Wayne receives $25,000 donation from Fort Wayne Home and Garden Show Updated : 5 hours ago 21Alive News at 6 News Overnight ramp closures planned for I-69 in Fort Wayne Updated : 5 hours ago 21Alive News at 6 Latest News News Taylor University’s ‘Main Street Mile’ initiative breaks ground on $35M development Updated : 5 hours ago 21Alive News at 6 News Allen County Commissioners vote down rezoning requests for planned southwest Allen County housing development Updated : 5 hours ago 21Alive News at 6 News Humane Fort Wayne receives $25,000 donation from Fort Wayne Home and Garden Show Updated : 8 hours ago | By WPTA Staff Owner Becky Williamson and mascot Gnorm the Gnome presented the check. News Republican primary heats up for Allen County commissioner seat Updated : 8 hours ago News DNR lifts boating restriction placed on Lake Wawasee Updated : 9 hours ago | By WPTA Staff According to the agency, a boating restriction is put into effect when surface water conditions are likely to enter homes because of a wake. News Republican primary heats up for Allen County commissioner seat Updated : 9 hours ago | By Tom Powell Two candidates are vying to replace Richard Beck in the Republican primary for the third district seat on the Allen County Board of Commissioners.