500-acre data center campus planned in Tulsa, Oklahoma - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 500-acre data center campus planned in Tulsa, Oklahoma No details on which company behind Project Clydesbank May 20, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say A data center campus is in the works outside Tulsa, Oklahoma. Site of the proposed Projects Clydesdale – Google Maps First reported by Tulsa World, an application has been submitted to rezone land from AG to industrial for a data center campus known as Project Clydesdale. The project would be developed on 506 acres on the North and West of the Northwest corner of E 76th Street N and North Sheridan Road in Tulsa County. Further details on the development haven’t been shared. The land is currently owned by Bird Creek Ranch Limited Partnership. The company behind the project hasn’t been revealed. Neither Tulsa, nor Oklahoma more generally, has a major data center ecosystem. However, a 340-acre campus known as Project Anthem is in the works in the city. Meta has been linked to the development, which is due to begin construction next year. Google operates a data center campus to the east of Tulsa in Pryor, Mayes County. Announced in 2007, it launched a facility there back in 2011 and has expanded at regular intervals since. TierPoint operates several data centers in Tulsa . Last year, Tonaquint acquired an EdgeX data center in Oklahoma City. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 18 Nov 2025 Legal issues force developer to withdraw data center proposal in Plymouth Township, Pennsylvania Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in North America DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 06 Nov 2025 Police hunt for copper thieves in Elk County, Pennsylvania Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Oklahoma Project Clydesdale Tulsa Tulsa County Comments