Application filed for 8.6 million sq ft data center project outside Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Application filed for 8.6 million sq ft data center project outside Atlanta, Georgia Project Bunkhouse coming to Stilesboro April 01, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Plans have been filed for a large data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia. Project Bunkhouse site in Stilesboro, GA – Google Maps Engineering services firm Kimley-Horn filed a Development of Regional Impact application this week with the Georgia Department of State Affairs for a data center campus known as Project Bunkhouse. The project is described as an 8.6 million sq ft (798,966 sqm) data center campus. Further details on the number and specifications of planned data centers weren’t shared. The application says the project will be complete by 2035. The property is on largely undeveloped land along Taff Road, south of south of Highway 113/Cartersville Highway near Stilesboro in Bartow County. Stilesboro is some 60km northwest of downtown Atlanta. It’s unclear on whose behalf Kimley-Horn has filed the application. DCD has reached out for more information. Atlanta, traditionally a Tier 2 market, has quickly become a major hotspot for data center development. DRI applications for more than a dozen campuses, totaling tens of millions of square feet across dozens of buildings, have been filed over the last couple of years. While many are in Atlanta’s traditional data center heartland around Fulton County, applications have been filed for projects across the region. Atlas Development is also planning a 2 million sq ft (211,260 sqm) campus in Bartow County southeast of Adairsville. Switch is also set to develop a 126-acre campus outside Cartersville. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 18 Nov 2025 2.6 million sq ft data center campus proposed in Pennsylvania Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | London 2026 - Sample Delegate List 13 Jan 2026 CommScope completes sale of connectivity and cable solutions unit to Amphenol Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Atlanta Bartow County Georgia Kimley-Horn & Associates Project Bunkhouse Stilesboro Comments