Metrobloks announces plans for three-building data center campus in Kansas City, Missouri - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Metrobloks announces plans for three-building data center campus in Kansas City, Missouri Company to invest $1.4 billion in project March 24, 2026 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Metrobloks is set to develop a data center campus outside Kansas City, Missouri. The company this week announced plans to invest $1.4 billion in developing a campus in Liberty, a city in Clay County to the north of Kansas City. – Google Maps The three-building campus is set to total 568,800 sq ft (52,770 sqm). Full details, including project timelines, haven’t been shared. Local news reports the company is developing on 29 acres at 2515 Old Hughes Road, securing planning permission for the first 177,000 sq ft (16,443 sqm), two-story building in December , and bonds from the city earlier this month . "Metrobloks is proud to expand in Liberty, where we found the ideal combination of infrastructure, talent, and community partnership to support our next phase of growth," said Ernest Popescu, CEO of Metrobloks. "This investment reflects our confidence in the Liberty area as a rising digital economy and innovation hub, and we look forward to building a facility here in the Kansas City region that delivers long-term value for both our customers and the community." Metrobloks is a data center developer and operator focused on AI-ready facilities at the metro Edge. The company counts Current Equity Partners, Serena Capital , and Eurazeo as investors. CEO Popescu was previously a VP of data center development at Iron Mountain and has also held roles at Meta and Amazon. "Missouri continues to compete and win on a global stage, and Metrobloks' $1.4 billion investment in Clay County is a powerful example of that momentum," added Missouri Governor Mike Kehoe. "This project brings 30 high-quality jobs while strengthening our state's position as a leader in next-generation infrastructure. We are proud to support innovative companies choosing Missouri to grow, invest, and create opportunity for our communities." Metrobloks closed a financing round led by Canopy Generations Fund in February. On its website, the company lists projects in Detroit, Michigan; Miami , Florida; Indianapolis , Indiana; Phoenix, Arizona; and Paris, France. The firm recently partnered with Soluna to develop the latter’s Kati 2 campus in Texas . "Metrobloks' decision to invest in Liberty highlights Missouri's strength as a destination for advanced technology and digital infrastructure," said Subash Alias, CEO of Missouri Partnership. "With our strategic location, reliable energy assets, and growing tech workforce, Missouri is ready to support the evolving demands of data-driven industries." Metrobloks will benefit from Missouri’s Data Center Sales Tax Exemption Program. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: India’s Data Center Boom 13 Jan 2026 Plans filed for six-building data center campus outside Augusta, Georgia Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America The Xcelerated Compute Show | New York 2026 - Sample Delegate List 27 Jan 2026 Microsoft given greenlight for 15 more data center buildings in Mount Pleasant, Wisconsin Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags 2515 Old Hughes Road Clay County Kansas City Liberty Metrobloks Missouri Comments