Visit Our Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Data Center | ark data centers Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Data Center Ready for High-Performance Compute ark's Pittsburgh Data Center is a 39,000+ square foot, concurrently maintainable facility that provides secure data storage in a state-of-the-art environment, while saving customers the expense associated with owning, operating and maintaining such a facility independently. Schedule a Tour Choose Pennsylvania’s high-security, high-performance data center ark’s Pittsburgh Data Center is a concurrently maintainable, 5th-generation facility complete with environmental systems and controls, redundant backup power and HVAC, specialized fire detection and reinforced concrete building construction. The facility features conditioned data center space to accommodate several cabinets of mission-critical infrastructure and is served by redundant fiber optic connections featuring 24/7/365 critical monitoring and 24/7/365 secure access with biometric security. ark’s Pittsburgh Data Center obtained the coveted ENERGY STAR® Certification in 2023, placing in the 90th percentile with an impressive score of 99/100. The ENERGY STAR® Certification is the only energy efficiency certification in the U.S. based on verified energy performance. Visit our Sustainability page for more information about ark’s ESG and energy efficiency efforts. Network of Technical Support Our Pittsburgh Data Center provides a level of standards and support that helps our customers bridge their organization’s technical gaps. When you use our colocation services, you get: 24/7/365 Network Operations Center 24/7/365 Security Operations Center SOC 2 ® Externally Assessed Facility ITIL ® Based Processes Fiber Routes in Pennsylvania ark’s Pittsburgh Data Center is a part of our ION Network, giving customers access to a full suite of business connectivity and internet services. Additionally, it is diversely connected to all of our facilities in Ohio. Facility Specs Conditioned Space 11,200 sq. ft./396 racks, Colocation (Private or Shared), Suites and Halls, Storage and Office Capacity 1,500 kW Flooring Concrete Slab Other Features Secured Staging Area with Private Storage Cages Available Certifications Uptime Institute ® Tier III SLA Adheres to ASHRAE ® Environment Guidelines, Monitored - PacketPower ® Exchange Liebert ® DSE™ with EconoPhase™, Computer Room Air Conditioners (CRACs N+1), Average of ~210 Days of Economized Cooling Delivery Overhead Cooling - DataSox ® , Hot Aisle and Cold Aisle Topology, Cold Aisle Containment SLA 100% Uptime (Primary/Supplementary Required) Generation Utility ~35% Emission and Carbon Free, 1.75 MW Diesel Generator (2N) Grid Distribution Looped Distribution Grid, Utility Feeds with Diverse Pathways Facility Distribution Dual Path 120V/208V Starline ® Busway, UPS Conditioned with Battery Backup (2N) and Downstream Static Transfer Systems Authentication Control Proximity and Biometric/Iris Scan Physical Access Security Vestibule with Tailgate Detection System Video Surveillance Recorded and Reviewed Externally Assessed SOC 2 ® , PCI, NIST, ITAR, HITRUST Security Operations Center Organizational and Technical Security Monitoring ark Internet Highly Available, Bandwidth, Burstable, BGP Routed, Multiple Carriers, Dual Entrance Need answers? Come to the source. We’re here to listen, collaborate and help you build a powerful, future-focused technology strategy. Schedule My Consultation This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to collect information about how you interact with our website and allow us to remember you. We use this information in order to improve and customize your browsing experience and for analytics and metrics about our visitors both on this website and other media. By using our website, you agree to the use of cookies as described in our Privacy Policy . Accept Decline Close Cookies popup ×