Hutto residents file legal protest to block proposed Zydeco data center Skip to content by: Ethan Love Posted: Apr 16, 2026 / 04:00 PM CDT Updated: Apr 17, 2026 / 08:55 AM CDT SHARE AUSTIN (KXAN) — Hutto residents opposing a proposed data center held a press conference Thursday to announce formal legal protests that could force a supermajority vote by the City Council on the project. Neighbors organized under the group Stop the Hutto Data Center said they have filed two written protests related to a proposed Zydeco Development data center near 450 Ed Schmidt Boulevard. The filings invoke Texas Local Government Code 211.0061, which requires a three‑fourths vote of the City Council if property owners representing at least 20% of the land within 200 feet of a proposed zoning change formally object. Hutto residents opposing a proposed data center held a press conference Thursday to announce formal legal protests that could force a supermajority vote by the City Council on the project. (KXAN Photo/Ed Zavala) Hutto residents opposing a proposed data center held a press conference Thursday to announce formal legal protests that could force a supermajority vote by the City Council on the project. (KXAN Photo/Ed Zavala) Hutto residents opposing a proposed data center held a press conference Thursday to announce formal legal protests that could force a supermajority vote by the City Council on the project. (KXAN Photo/Ed Zavala) The project would require changes to Hutto’s Future Land Use Map and the Upper Schmidt’s Creek Planned Unit Development to allow the data center to exist near residential neighborhoods. Residents said they are concerned about noise, water use, heat, fire risk and long‑term impacts on quality of life. Opponents also pointed to uncertainty surrounding the project, including the lack of a confirmed tenant and pending approval from the electric utility Oncor for the facility’s power needs. City planning staff previously recommended against approval, organizers said. Organizers said they are continuing to collect signatures from nearby property owners ahead of upcoming votes by the Planning and Zoning Commission on April 20 and the City Council on May 7. If the protests meet the legal threshold, six of the council’s seven members would need to vote in favor of the zoning changes for the project to move forward. Add as preferred source on Google ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews Austin-Travis County Peter Pan Mini‑Golf lease extended through 2027 TEA confirms investigation into Austin ISD Pride … Students compete for dish on Kerbey Lane menu Titans select Anthony Hill Jr. in 2nd round Governor, Austin reach agreement over APD ICE policies Ballet Austin artistic director gets day proclamation What is Eeyore’s Birthday Party? UT beach VB beats UCLA again, wins auto bid to NCAAs Austin to start negotiations over construction of … Old Austin landfill could soon power thousands of … Nearly 2k volunteers take to lake for Earth Day cleanup How TX Gubernatorial candidates plans to cut Texans’ … APD: 750+ pounds of stolen copper wire found, 2 arrested German AI chip startup to launch US HQ in Austin Temps, rain, storms: Explore 2026 weather data US 290 flyovers at I-35 closed this weekend for repairs Mystery remains: What happened to Athena’s mate? Find wildflowers in Texas using TxDOT’s new map Q&A: State contractors untouched in TX H-1B freeze Very isolated severe storms possible through Sunday Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now More Than the Score Sports Newsletter SIGN UP NOW Trending Stories Teacher on leave over inappropriate student contact Letter outlines gaps in Camp Mystic emergency plan Train derails in downtown Austin, no injuries reported Find wildflowers in Texas using TxDOT’s new map Man in Travis Co. gets 50 years for child sexual … BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Wayfair’s Way Day sale starts early with up to 80% … Amazon’s ‘Haul’ storefront sells nothing over $20 The best under-$50 Mother’s Day gifts we could find Bouqs Mother’s Day collabs: LEGO, Land’s End and … View All BestReviews Picks Don't Miss Voter Guide: What to know for May 2 local elections These were Texas’ fastest-growing counties in 2025 School district enrollment totals in Central Texas QUIZ: How much do you know about AI? MAP: How your neighborhood voted in Dem Senate primary