Developer Forges Ahead With $38B in NC Data Centers Build & Design Data Center Construction Data Center Site Selection Business News Developer Forges Ahead With $38B in North Carolina Data Center Builds Energy Storage Solutions plans to break ground early next year on a 900 MW data center campus in Edgecombe County, a rural community in eastern North Carolina. The company is also planning a similar project in Fayetteville, NC. Shane Snider , Senior News Writer , Data Center Knowledge November 5, 2025 3 Min Read Rendering via Energy Storage Solutions A North Carolina data center developer’s plan to build a massive 900 MW, 300-acre data center and energy storage campus in eastern North Carolina cleared a major hurdle this week after county commissioners added data center construction to permitted zoning. Dan Shaffer, president of Energy Storage Solutions, based in Rocky Mount, N.C., told Data Center Knowledge that the company expects to break ground on the $19.2 billion project in the Kingsboro development in Tarboro, N.C., in the first quarter of 2026. A twin project is also planned for Fayetteville, N.C., Shaffer said. When complete, the data center campuses would be among the largest in the Southeast. The buildout at both the Kingsboro development and Fayetteville sites will come in 24 phases over 3-5 years, Shaffer said, and each campus will support more than 1,000 employees. The campuses will each have about a dozen 40,000-square-foot structures. Original plans called for smaller projects, but Shaffer said financial backers asked him to expand the footprints to meet booming demand . He declined to disclose the names of investors or vendors involved. Related: Power Availability Now Drives Data Center Site Selection The company will use natural gas to power the site, and Shaffer estimates the company could pay for $176 million in energy infrastructure upgrades in the area. An on-site natural gas power generation will allow the company to sell surplus power back to local utilities at a discount. Blueprint for Energy Storage Solution’s proposed Kingsboro NetZero Data Center Campus. (Source: Energy Storage Solutions LLC) Energy Storage Solutions suffered a defeat earlier this year when Edgecombe County commissioners voted down another $6.4 million, 100 MW project planned for another site in Tarboro, following community opposition. On Monday, those same commissioners unanimously voted to amend the county’s Unified Development Ordinance to allow data center construction in specific industrial zoning districts. Schaffer said he’s appealing the earlier decision and still hopes to build at the first site in Tarboro. He said the Kingsboro project will add $75 million in annual tax revenue for Edgecombe County. “Most counties across the country haven’t dealt with data center zoning,” Shaffer said. “It doesn’t necessarily fit easily into their interpretation of what the current building codes are. So, we’ve worked closely with the county manager and staff to put together something that will work.” Local Concerns, Global Implications According to Steven Dickens, CEO and analyst at HyperFrame Research, local zoning laws will continue to impact major projects across the country as hyperscalers and others plot massive data center buildouts to meet explosive AI market demand. Related: Virginia Faces New Data Center Growth Headwinds “This is what is good and bad about the US. … The good is that government is pushed as close to the communities as possible,” Dickens said. “But that means if you’re a business, you’ve got to operate locally, statewide, and federally. AI is a national concern and a geopolitical concern as we look to compete with China. But where the investments are made, it’s going to have to be done tactically at a local zoning level if you want to get a data center up and running.” Community opposition is also having an impact. Amazon pulled a data center earlier this year planned for Virginia after neighbors objected, and in August, city council members in Tucson, Ariz., shot down Amazon’s planned Project Blue AI data center campus. For his part, Shaffer said he wants to have a positive impact on the region with the data center projects. Other projects are planned in South Carolina and Virginia. “It’s an education process not only for the community, but for us as well,” he said. “We need to understand their concerns. But sometimes those concerns are not legitimate and just something someone stumbled onto on the internet.” About the Author Shane Snider Senior News Writer, Data Center Knowledge Shane Snider is a veteran journalist with more than 20 years of industry experience. He started his career as a general assignment reporter and has covered government, business, education, technology and much more. He was a reporter for the Triangle Business Journal, Raleigh News and Observer and most recently a tech reporter for CRN. He was also a top wedding photographer for many years, traveling across the country and around the world. He lives in Raleigh with his wife and two children. See more from Shane Snider Want more Data Center Knowledge stories in your Google search results? Add Us Now Subscribe to the Data Center Knowledge Newsletter Get analysis and expert insight on the latest in data center business and technology delivered to your inbox daily. Newsletter Sign-Up Editor's Choice See all Compliance How Sovereign Cloud Is Opening New Opportunities for Data Center Providers How Sovereign Cloud Is Opening New Opportunities for Data Center Providers Apr 20, 2026 2026 Data Trends & Outlooks AI Data Centers The AI Infrastructure Revolution: Predictions for 2026 Jan 5, 2026 | 5 Min Read Outages Outsmarting Data Center Outage Risks in 2026 Jan 13, 2026 | 6 Min Read Compliance Data Center Compliance in 2026: What Changed, What’s Next, and How to Prepare Jan 8, 2026 | 6 Min Read Colocation Power, Not Space: The Colocation Battleground in 2026 Jan 14, 2026 | 6 Min Read Download the Collection Want more Data Center Knowledge stories in your Google search results? Subscribe to the Data Center Knowledge Newsletter Get analysis and expert insight on the latest in data center business and technology delivered to your inbox daily. Newsletter Sign-Up Industry Voices Infrastructure Nvidia: AI Agents Break the Data Center Throughput Model Nvidia: AI Agents Break the Data Center Throughput Model Apr 24, 2026 Data Center Chips Intel Shares Surge on Strong AI Data Center Demand Intel Shares Surge on Strong AI Data Center Demand Apr 24, 2026