AWS weighing up data center project in Fayette County, Ohio - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel AWS weighing up data center project in Fayette County, Ohio But concerns are raised about who would pay transmission costs November 22, 2024 By Sebastian Moss Have your say Amazon Web Services (AWS) is eyeing Fayette County, southern Ohio, as a site for a data center development. The company is considering a location about 25 miles east of Xenia, 40 miles east of Dayton, it told the Dayton Daily News . – Midwest Mega Commerce Center “We recently filed documents as part of the process in exploring possible data center locations. This is part of our normal due diligence process as we are constantly evaluating new locations based on customer demand,” Amazon spokesperson Virginia Milazzo said. The company has not applied for building permits yet, nor has it disclosed the expected size, cost, or employment numbers of the facility or campus. The Office of the Ohio Consumers’ Counsel (OCC) office representing Ohio consumers, has, however, filed a notice on the project with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). The OCC filing said the data center would be located at the Midwest Mega Commerce Center in Fayette County’s Jefferson Township and that operations could start in September 2026. The state's largest certified Job Ready Site, the Midwest Mega covers more than 1,500 acres of developable acreage and is set to be home to a $3.5 billion battery plant built by Honda and LG Energy. Transmission architecture would be required for the facility, with the filing objecting to the potential of the costs being passed onto AES Ohio residential consumers. Electricity transmission infrastructure to serve the first phase of the data center would exceed $22 million in cost, the OCC filing says. “While AES Ohio represents that the agreement is protective of other AES consumers, it notes that it intends to seek rolled-in rate treatment for the costs of the network upgrades in subsequent proceedings before the appropriate state and/or federal regulatory agencies,” the OCC filing states. “This is cause for concern for all customers who likely would be responsible for paying for those costs.” In response, Milazzo told the Dayton Daily: “Amazon pays transmission costs at rates established by utility regulators to make sure we are paying our fair share of the costs for electricity. We work closely with utilities and grid operators to plan for future growth, and where we require specific infrastructure to meet our needs (such as new substations), we work to make sure that we’re covering those costs and that they aren’t being passed on to other ratepayers." This week, the company announced a $2bn campus in Central Ohio , as part of a $10bn investment in the state. More in The Data Center Construction Channel Developing sustainable data centers 12 Dec 2025 Gibo plans 30MW+ AI data center in Malaysia Episode Keeping high-density data centers adaptive Tags AWS Amazon Web Services Ohio Midwest Mega Commerce Center Fayette County Dayton Xenia Jefferson Township Comments