Whitfield County commissioners approve rezoning for data center despite opposition | Dalton Daily Citizen Home News Sports Opinion Community Classifieds E-Edition Obituaries Magazine Bookshelf Home Subscriptions Newsletter signup E-Edition News Local News In Other News Obituaries Sports Local Sports State Sports National Sports Lifestyles Magazine Bookshelf Community Births Engagements Opinion Columns Editorials Letters to the Editor Classifieds Public Notices Georgia Notices Services About Us Contact Us Whitfield County commissioners approve rezoning for data center despite opposition Published 12:15 pm Tuesday, March 11, 2025 By Charles Oliver The members of the Whitfield County Board of Commissioners voted 3-2 Monday to approve a request by Core Scientific to rezone from general agriculture and rural residential to heavy manufacturing 173.3 acres on Old Tilton Road in Dalton. The decision was greeted with loud and sustained jeers from the sometimes rowdy crowd that packed the commissioners’ meeting room in the courthouse. Commissioners Robby Staten and Greg Jones voted for the rezoning. Commissioners John Thomas and Barry Robbins voted against, and board Chairman Jevin Jensen broke the tie, voting for the rezoning, which comes with the provision that the owners create access to Enterprise Drive to reduce the potential traffic impact on Old Tilton Road. At the start of the meeting, Jensen noted rumors spreading on social media that a bitcoin mining operation is planned for the site. He said that is not true, that an artificial intelligence (AI) data center will go there. An AI data center houses the computational infrastructure to develop, train and run artificial intelligence systems. “It’s like comparing a Pinto to a Rolls Royce,” Jensen said. “They both take gasoline, but they are not the same. If you don’t like bitcoin, we don’t have to have that argument. I may even agree with you. But that isn’t bitcoin mining.” He said the building will be cooled internally with liquids, not by external fans. Email newsletter signup Sign up for our daily email newsletter “We have drawings,” he said. “We aren’t taking anyone’s word for this.” Jensen’s statement did not keep some speakers from continuing to refer to the facility as a bitcoin mining center. Many speakers expressed concern about potential noise from the facility. “I have been (in the area near the proposed facility) since 1970,” said Wilma Gibson. “And I would like to have some peace and quiet for the rest of my time (there), so I am against this.” Sasha Cordle said her autistic son has thrived in the area “because of the peace and quiet.” She expressed concern about what she believes will be the “constant humming” from the facility and the impact it could have on him. Others expressed concerns about the impact noise from the center could have on livestock or wildlife in the area. Jensen said an independent acoustic study has been performed on the site. “It basically said at the property line the decibel reading would be below or at 55 decibels,” he said. “Right now, since I’m using a microphone I’m probably speaking at about 70 decibels. The typical conversation is probably 60 to 65 decibels.” He said Core Scientific had agreed to place a 30-foot vegetative buffer around the facility, which he said should further reduce noise, as well as help hide the facility from neighbors. Several speakers cited fear of the unknown as their reason for opposing the data center, citing questions about the impact it could have on electricity rates or their property values and where the electronics will be recycled or disposed of. Thomas said he’d been “back and forth” on the proposal. “The bottom line now is that I have heard y’all tonight,” he said. “This is a big change.” Thomas made a motion to deny the rezoning. That was met by boisterous applause from members of the audience. But as seconds ticked by with no other commissioner seconding the motion, the applause turned to jeers and shouts for someone to second the motion. It failed for lack of a second. As Jensen tried to call for order and continue the commissioners’ discussion of the matter, some audience members continued to shout over him. Finally, Staten made a motion to approve, which was seconded by Jones. After the commissioners voted, they tried to continue with the rest of their meeting agenda. Some members of the audience continued to shout at them or to approach them to talk. Finally, Jensen slammed his gavel and said they were through with that issue. Jensen said after the meeting “the company will pay taxes on day one, providing millions in funding to the county schools to better educate our kids and creating a sustainable revenue stream for Dalton Utilities and the city of Dalton. In addition, it will modernize and diversify our county’s economy without competing for the same pool of workers as the flooring industry — which has helped grow our county for decades.” “I fully understand some citizens’ concerns about the noise and alleged impact of cryptocurrency mining,” he said. “However, this facility will not be used for that purpose. AI data centers use entirely different technologies, cooling methods and building structures. There are dozens of similar AI-type data centers in production safely across Georgia. The site is off of Enterprise Drive, which has half a dozen heavy manufacturing facilities in operation today and a large electrical substation.” You Might Like Local News Jensen named Toast of the Town honoree Local Sports CHRISTIAN HERITAGE SCHOOL’S MIKE ROBY NAMED GHSA’S 7A-D1 ATHLETIC DIRECTOR OF THE YEAR Local News Dalton’s ‘Spring CLEAN’ off to a strong start Local News Dalton Daily Citizen adjusting print schedule to three days per week eEdition View Today's Paper Most Popular 1 2 3 4 5 Sections Home News Obituaries Opinion Sports Community Lifestyles Press release Services e-Edition Newsletter signup Subscriptions Classifieds Georgia Public Notices Our Company About Us Contact Us Our Partners © 2026 Dalton Daily Citizen. Privacy Policy Terms of Service