Galaxy acquires Bitcoin mining facility in Dickens from Argo | KLBK | KAMC | EverythingLubbock.com Skip to content by: Jaxie Pidgeon Posted: Jan 17, 2023 / 06:50 AM CST Updated: Jan 17, 2023 / 12:31 PM CST SHARE DICKENS COUNTY, Texas – In May 2022, Argo Blockchain built a 160-acre bitcoin mining facility called “Helios” in Dickens County. After an endless struggle with falling bitcoin prices and higher energy costs, Argo would be $41 million in debt, but a $65 million purchase before the end of the year by Galaxy Digital would save its future. “We’re incredibly excited to be a participant in this community,” said Mike Wursthorn, vice president of Galaxy Digital. “We see it as a responsibility being one of the major employers now in Dickens County to help further build it up and ensure that there is a long term sustainable trajectory, not just for Helios, but Dickens county itself.” Also as a part of the acquisition, Galaxy agreed to provide Argo with a $35 million loan, secured by a collateral package with Argo mining equipment. “We didn’t just buy a Bitcoin mining facility and Helios, we joined the community,” Wursthorn said. Bitcoin is a digital currency that people can send and receive over the internet. Unlike the U.S. dollar, it’s not centralized in a government bank. Transactions are verified through a complex network of computers around the world called the blockchain. “Bitcoin is a digital asset that allows people to transfer money without a middleman,” said Amanda Fabiano, head of mining at Galaxy Digital. “There’s no Bitcoin without Bitcoin mining, so that’s why we’re so invested in the mining space.” There are over 30 employees, all of which Galaxy kept from the original Argo team. Galaxy said it will succeed in ways that Argo couldn’t. “Galaxy is a diversified financial services company, so we don’t just mine Bitcoin, we have multiple other units,” Fabiano said. “With that, we think that we have a good chance of doing the right thing by the local community and building and growing and expanding.” The building near Afton, Texas hosts more than 50,000 servers submerged in a dielectric fluid that keeps them cool. Each of them competes with other computers across the globe to verify bitcoin transactions first. Galaxy plans to continue expanding the “Helios” facility that operates up to 180 megawatts of mining capacity. “The site itself is not at its full max capacity that it could potentially be out in the future, so there’ll be more construction, more design work and more growth,” Fabiano said. “I think it’s the future of money. It’s the future of how we’re going to use financial services and we’re just at the very pioneering step of it, so the more that we can educate, I think the better everyone will be.” Wursthorn said Galaxy will continue where Argo left off on all community projects as well, including bringing back the city pool in Spur that’s been closed since 2009. The company will also create local education programs to help others understand digital assets of the crypto economy. To learn more, visit the Galaxy Digital website . Add as preferred source on Google ✕ Read next > Read next > Next ✕ ✕ Read next > Next story in Cancel Read next > Next story in Cancel Amazon Summer Beauty Event returns Monday We found some great early deals for Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event Amazon’s Summer Beauty Event officially starts Monday, April 27, and runs through Mother’s Day on May 10. This is the fourth annual sale event, with thousands of deals across skin care, … Walmart’s ‘Flash Deals’ are filled with hidden gems … Walmart’s weekly ‘Flash Deals’ are hidden in plain sight and offer huge discounts If you aren’t checking Walmart’s “Flash Deals” page every week, now is the time to start. Not to be the bearer of bad news, but if you haven’t been checking this page, … Best fireproof safes and document storage to have … A fireproof safe is a great way to keep important documents safe Natural disasters like wildfires can strike without warning, and in the face of such uncertainty, having a reliable, fireproof storage solution can be the difference between losing … View All BestReviews Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now Daily Local News SIGN UP NOW Newsfeed Now Back-to-back hurricanes more likely to happen: Study Al-Qaida chief’s ‘pattern of life’ was key to death Bike tours raising awareness for bone marrow registry 180 days in jail possible for ski pass fraud Watch: 4 mountain lions prowl neighborhood Good Samaritan helps rescue kids from icy pond What’s next in ‘unprecedented’ case of truck driver … Could new DNA tech crack the JonBenet Ramsey case? Newsfeed Now: Biden unveils $1.75 trillion spending … Newsfeed Now: Democrats push to wrap up negotiations … View All Newsfeed Now Local News Caleb Douglas picked by Dolphins at No. 75 in NFL … For the first time during the NFL Draft, Texas Tech had an offensive player picked, as wide receiver Caleb Douglas was taken off the board by the Miami Dolphins in the third round. Romello Height drafted No. 70 by San Francisco 49ers In a busy day for Texas Tech at the NFL Draft, edge rusher Romello Height joined in on the festivities after being chosen in the third round by the San Francisco 49ers. Pedicabs licensed for George Strait weekend travel The above video shows the top local headlines for the morning of April 24, 2026. LUBBOCK, Texas — The City of Lubbock’s Secretary’s Office has issued permits for 14 pedicab companies this week. The companies will be operating 63 pedicabs during the weekend for the George Strait concert. The City is urging everyone to be […] Lee Hunter headed to the NFL, taken No. 49 by Panthers Another Texas Tech player is making the jump to the NFL, as defensive lineman Lee Hunter is the newest member of the Carolina Panthers. Jacob Rodriguez headed to Dolphins, drafted at No. … The wait is over for Texas Tech standout linebacker Jacob Rodriguez, as he heard his name called by the Miami Dolphins at the NFL Draft. Strait to Stage: Fans excited ahead of George Strait … For weeks, the town has been gearing up, as headliners Zach Top, Dylan Gossett and the King of Country are prepping to perform during night one of George Strait’s Strait to Tech stop. Mayor and LAA to present check to Lubbock Impact Mayor Mark McBrayer and the Lubbock Apartment Association are set to present a check of the funds raided at the 44th Annual State of the City event to Lubbock Impact. United and Coca-Cola teamed up to keep Lubbock beautiful After a $100,000 donation to Keep Lubbock Beautiful, Albertsons Companies, the parent company of United Supermarkets and Amigos, and Coca-Cola teamed up to support local cleanup efforts nationwide, including Lubbock, as part of the “Greatest American Cleanup.” Lubbock father shoots son over Social Security dispute More information has been revealed in the fatal shooting that left one person dead on Wednesday in South Lubbock. Court reinstates Gary Boren to District 4 City Council … The Seventh Court of Appeals unanimously ruled in favor of Gary Boren after being removed from the ballot for the District 4 City Council special election. Former Cannon airman found guilty for sexual assault An airman who was stationed at Cannon Air Force Base, Dorian Nevels, was found guilty Friday morning after being arrested on August 30, 2022 on a charge of Sexual Assault. 26-year-old Lubbock man dead after crash on Idalou … LUBBOCK COUNTY, Texas — The Texas Department of Public Safety announced that William Michael Russell Jr., 26, of Lubbock, has died, and another suffered moderate injuries after a Friday morning crash near US 62 and North County Road 3000. DPS officials say that, through an investigation, they found a vehicle, driven by Russell Jr., was […] Texas Tech Pom Squad takes the 2026 World Championship Texas Tech notched another title for its Spirit Program, courtesy of its pom squad. Texas Tech emerged victorious over everyone and brought home