Plan For Data Center Complex Near Kearneysville Approved - ObserverWV Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer Example of data center (image of Atlanta 1 278 MW data center from QTS website). A new data center campus will be located on a 300 acre property that is split between Jefferson and Berkeley Counties (see map at bottom of page). The site includes two parcels in Berkeley County — a 90 acre parcel that will be used for two data center buildings and infrastructure, and a narrow parcel that will provide access from Charles Town Road (Route 115). A third 191 acre parcel in Jefferson County is zoned for industrial use. The Berkeley County Planning Commission approved the concept plan for the two Berkeley parcels in March that will include 2 data center buildings, a guard shack, a electrical switching station, a water tank, and several stormwater retention ponds (see image below). The Jefferson County Planning office has not yet received any plans to review. Excerpt from IB10 Martinsburg Concept Plan (north is to the right in this image). The three parcels were sold in July 2024 by the F.O. Day Company to IB10 Martinsburg LLC. The properties have access to a natural gas pipeline and two high-capacity electric transmission lines. According to the plan documents, water and sewer service for the initial phase of the project will be provided by Berkeley County. The Observer’s questions about the project were directed to QTS, a data center development company headquartered in Overland Park, Kansas. A representative from QTS responded that “We are in the initial stages of planning. We look forward to expanding our footprint in West Virginia to meet growing demand from our customers in the market. As we thoughtfully work to advance the project, we will communicate updates. Location of data center campus west of Kearnesville off Route 115 (image courtesy WV Economic Development) Published 2025 Apr 7. Updated 2025 Apr 8 (location image and concept plan details). By Steve Pearson Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Related We encourage our readers to contact The Observer to suggest topics, events, artists, musicians, craft-persons, businesses, or restaurants you want us to feature. Use the contact form or email Connect@ObserverWV.com. Footer Topics Community Economy & Environment Government Events & Activities Sightline Stories Solar in Jefferson County Remembering Hartstown Quick Links Observer Weekly Print Archive WV Perspectives Nature Local History The Observer About Subscribe Advertise Connect With Us Terms of Use Follow Us Facebook