Plans filed for 1.4 million sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Plans filed for 1.4 million sq ft data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia Applicant files to develop "multiple buildings" on 213-acre site March 28, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Plans have been filed for a data center campus outside Atlanta, Georgia Universal Planning LLC filed a Development of Regional Impact application this week with the Georgia Department of State Affairs for a data center campus known as the Gregory Road Data Center in Covington, Newton County. – Google Maps The project is described as a data center campus occupying “multiple buildings up to 1.41 million square feet” (130,993 sqm) on approximately 213 acres – alongside 307.5 acres of residential development. Further details on the number and capacity of the data centers weren’t shared. The campus will reportedly be developed in three phases, with the first phase starting in 2027 and the full build-out continuing to 2036. The project could see up to $5.7 billion invested. It’s unclear which company is working behind Universal Planning. Landowners on the project include JBW Investments, LLC and JF Land Investments, LLC. JBW Investments has previously filed for a data center rezoning at the corner of Gregory Road and Flat Rock Road. Covington, some 40 miles east of Atlanta in Newton County, is already home to Meta’s Georgia data center campus. The social media firm broke ground on the site in 2018. Amazon has also acquired land in the area, while Serverfarm is planning to develop a natural gas-powered data center in Covington. Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: The New Physics of US Data Center Infrastructure 21 Nov 2025 Singapore health firm MaNaDr pivots to AI data center development Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America Powering the future of US data centers 14 Nov 2025 Meta announces data center campus in Beaver Dam, Wisconsin Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Atlanta Covington Georgia Gregory Road Data Center Newton County Universal Planning LLC Comments