A Company Eyes What Would Be North Carolina’s First Commercial Natural Gas Well - Inside Climate News Skip to content Donate Open Menu A company with connections to the cryptocurrency industry is considering drilling for natural gas near the Deep River north of Sanford in Lee County, North Carolina. If approved, the project would be the first commercial well drilled into the Triassic Basin, a natural gas repository underlying North Carolina and other Eastern Seaboard states. Deep River Data, based in Alamance County, is interested in accessing gas from Butler Well No. 3, just south of U.S. Highway 421 near the Lee-Chatham county line, according to emails obtained under public records law. Company adviser Dan Spuller, who is both a crypto entrepreneur and a natural gas landman, contacted the state Oil & Gas Commission in September about applying for a drilling unit, a parcel of land where drilling would occur. He said the natural gas would be for a data center to power “AI workloads,” not crypto mining. Both applications are energy-intensive, running server farms around the clock to power streams of computer computations. Newsletters We deliver climate news to your inbox like nobody else. Every day or once a week, our original stories and digest of the web’s top headlines deliver the full story, for free. ICN Weekly Saturdays Our #1 newsletter delivers the week’s climate and energy news – our original stories and top headlines from around the web. Get ICN Weekly Inside Clean Energy Thursdays Dan Gearino’s habit-forming weekly take on how to understand the energy transformation reshaping our world. Get Inside Clean Energy Today’s Climate Tuesdays A once-a-week digest of the most pressing climate-related news, written by Kiley Price and released every Tuesday. Get Today’s Climate Breaking News Don’t miss a beat. Get a daily email of our original, groundbreaking stories written by our national network of award-winning reporters. Get Breaking News ICN Sunday Morning Go behind the scenes with executive editor Vernon Loeb and ICN reporters as they discuss one of the week’s top stories. Get ICN Sunday Morning Justice & Health A digest of stories on the inequalities that worsen the impacts of climate change on vulnerable communities. Get Justice & Health Email Address I agree to the terms of service and privacy policy . “We want to submit a packet that is complete on first impression—avoiding delays and making the Commission’s review as straightforward as possible,” Spuller wrote. Duke Energy recently projected data centers could add nearly 6 gigawatts to demand in North Carolina, which has prompted the construction of new natural gas plants and pipelines, major sources of planet-warming methane and carbon dioxide. Methane, which leaks upstream from well heads, pipelines and compressor stations, traps 86 times more heat over 20 years than carbon dioxide, the primary greenhouse gas, which power plants emit when burning fossil fuels. Nationwide, some data centers have not only tapped into the grid but revived shuttered coal and nuclear plants for their power. The Lee County project would tap into the natural gas reserves in the Deep River Basin, which spans 150 miles over 11 counties in central and southern North Carolina. Spuller told Inside Climate News the company will use conventional drilling, rather than fracking, to produce the gas. Fracking is a particularly destructive type of extraction. It requires horizontal drilling beneath the ground and often uses toxic chemicals mixed with large volumes of water injected at high pressures to crack the shale formations and free the gas trapped within small fissures. Fracking is legal in North Carolina, but has never been deployed. Lee County enacted two-year fracking moratoria in 2017 and in 2019; both have expired. “We are evaluating whether the well can safely and efficiently produce gas using conventional methods,” Spuller said. “It remains in a pre-feasibility phase—we are still evaluating whether development is even viable. Nothing has been approved, permitted or built.” Butler Well No. 3 was drilled vertically in 1998 to a depth of 2,655 feet, according to a 2011 report by the North Carolina Geological Survey. The well lies within a geological region of black shale and old coal deposits, a legacy of the area’s mining history. “The Oil and Gas Commission must look carefully at this proposal to exploit the gas well near the Deep River, as well as those who want to develop it,” said Therese Vick of the Blue Ridge Environmental Defense League. “It is incumbent on the commission to do its due diligence. Having worked with communities in Lee and Chatham Counties for over a decade, my concerns are many.” Depending on their size, data centers can also consume enormous amounts of water to cool their computer servers. The project would be less than a tenth of a mile from the Deep River and Patterson Creek. Spuller said water use “would be minimal” and that “there are no plans to withdraw water from the Deep River.” The project could tap into groundwater or a public water main that runs along the north side of U.S. Highway 421. The company is considering closed-loop systems and other sustainable options, he said. Some closed-loop systems, however, use more energy to run the coolers. The project will likely need standard utility interconnections, Spuller said, such as electricity, fiber and “basic access roads typical of small-scale data facilities. There are no heavy-industrial or extraction components proposed.” The state Geological Survey noted that Butler Well No. 3 is located within three and a half miles of a 6-inch distribution line to the Sanford Industrial Park, “which has large volume gas users.” In addition to Butler Well No. 3, there is a second natural gas resource in Lee County, known as Simpson Well No. 1, pictured here. Companies have also explored the gas in the Simpson Well, but it has not been commercially drilled. Credit: NC DEQ Stephanie Stephens, the Deep River Riverkeeper, said she’s concerned the project could be a harbinger of more data centers along the Carolina Core, an area that includes Sanford and is targeted for economic development. “We would like to be choosy about the types of industry that come in,” she said. The proposed data center would also be near the new Boone Trail kayak and canoe access site. The Deep River is a troubled waterway. Nearly 23 miles are on the federal impaired waters list, and it contains 1,4-Dioxane, a likely carcinogen, discharged from the City of Asheboro’s wastewater treatment plant. Another 131 miles of tributaries to the river are also impaired, state records show. “We already have a polluted river,” Stephens said. Lee County records show Butler Well No. 3 is on a 643-acre forested tract owned by Ed Myrick of Pompano Beach, Florida. However, Dan Butler, who lives in Southern Pines, purchased the mineral rights beneath that property in 1975 from the previous land owner, Weyerhauser, the timber company. Butler owns more than 2,700 acres of mineral rights in Lee County, state records show. Since 1998, several companies have conducted exploratory drilling of Butler Well No. 3. However, given the comparatively small amount of gas and lack of a pipeline to transport it, they determined it wasn’t economically feasible and abandoned their projects. Butler is a third-generation oil and gas developer. His grandparents were born in western Pennsylvania, where he owns “oil wells being drilled by the hundreds in the Alleghany State Forest,” according to a transcript of his comments at a 2012 Legislative Research Commission meeting. Butler’s father, Howard, was the superintendent of the Coal Glen Mine in Chatham County in 1925 when it exploded and killed 53 men. It’s uncertain whether the property, which currently allows residential and agricultural uses, would need to be rezoned. There are no provisions for data centers in Lee County’s current unified development ordi