400MW Prologis data center campus chosen as preferred project on city-owned land in San Jose, California - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel 400MW Prologis data center campus chosen as preferred project on city-owned land in San Jose, California Company proposes four-building data center park and 100MW manufacturing site next to wastewater facility November 21, 2025 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Industrial real estate giant Prologis has gained approval for plans to develop a data center campus in San Jose, California. As noted by BizJournal , the San Jose city council this week unanimously approved a Request for Qualification, selecting Prologis as the preferred developer for a 159-acre site. City staff had recommended approval. – Prologis Prologis aims to develop a 1.684 million sq ft (156,450 sqm), 396MW data center campus, featuring four two-story buildings. The development would also include 785,000 square feet of manufacturing space in four buildings, as well as five on-site substations. Each data center could offer up to 99MW across 421,100 sq ft (39,120 sqm). The manufacturing buildings could offer up to 25MW each. The land is owned by the San José-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility (RFW), which is co-owned by the cities of San José and Santa Clara and operated by the City of San José. The RWF lands consist of approximately 2,680 acres, including the 159 acres of buffer lands located on Zanker Road, adjacent to Highway 237. RWF purchased the lands around 1998 to prevent incompatible uses from developing adjacent to the plant’s operational area. The city of San Jose started work to find a potential developer for the buffer acreage last year. The site is bounded by the Los Esteros Energy Center to the east, Artesian Slough to the west, Highway 237 to the south, Silicon Valley Advanced Water Purification Center, and the RWF operational area to the north. PG&E has committed to provide an initial 250MW of capacity via a dual feed connection from the Los Esteros 230kV substation in North San José within 30 to 36 months of a request. The site could, however, be expanded further in the future. A joint venture between Catellus Development Corporation and Deca Companies is the backup developer for the land. Catellus-Deca proposed roughly 3 million sq ft of flex space that could include data center space, research and development, or business park, alongside 562,000 sq ft of retail space. TC. No. Cal. Development, Inc., a subsidiary of CBRE's Trammell Crow Company, was the other company to put in a bid to develop the site. Trammell proposed to construct approximately 3.2 million sq ft of warehouse space, 54,000 sq ft of office space, and 60,000 sq ft of retail space. Logistics and industrial real estate giant Prologis began expanding further into the data center sector in recent years. Many of the company’s data center developments to date have been focused on building out existing landholdings, but the firm has been acquiring greenfield sites as well. Prologis currently has 1.4GW of secured power for data centers in its pipeline, with another 1.6GW "in the advanced stages of procurement," the company has previously said . It claims it has another 1.5GW in the planning stage, and is targeting up to 10GW of capacity in the next ten years. The company has current and planned developments in Illinois , Virginia , Georgia , and Texas in the US, as well as Paris , France. The company previously had a development in the works in Indiana , but confirmed to DCD that it is no longer moving forward. The firm recently acquired land outside Cincinnati, Ohio, for a potential data center development. More in Construction & Site Selection Preventing multimillion dollar data center losses through reporting 14 Apr 2026 Data centers could be built at three US Air Force bases in Alaska Episode Mapping Europe’s emerging data center cities More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 12 Jan 2026 US to make devices smarter again with 6 GHz power up Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags California Prologis San Jose San José-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility Santa Clara County Comments