$1B data center project south of Atlanta gets huge tax break By Zachary Hansen June 17, 2025 Share A Clayton County agency has granted what is likely to be tens of millions of dollars in property tax savings to a fast-growing data center developer, but declined to make public the deal’s specifics. The Development Authority of Clayton County on Thursday approved an incentive package to a subsidiary of TA Realty for a $959 million data center project along East Tanners Church Road. The project joins a burgeoning pipeline of data center projects in metro Atlanta, which has emerged as the country’s hottest market for computer storage space. Data center developments carry large price tags because of the amount of expensive equipment they house, but they usually employ only a few dozen workers and can strain local water and power grids . Incentivizing data centers — especially when they’re so in demand — often draws public scrutiny, particularly when the value of adopted incentives isn’t made transparent. A Clayton County agency has granted what is likely to be tens of millions of dollars in property tax savings to a fast-growing data center developer, but declined to make public the deal’s specifics. The Development Authority of Clayton County on Thursday approved an incentive package to a subsidiary of TA Realty for a $959 million data center project along East Tanners Church Road. The project joins a burgeoning pipeline of data center projects in metro Atlanta, which has emerged as the country’s hottest market for computer storage space. Data center developments carry large price tags because of the amount of expensive equipment they house, but they usually employ only a few dozen workers and can strain local water and power grids . Incentivizing data centers — especially when they’re so in demand — often draws public scrutiny, particularly when the value of adopted incentives isn’t made transparent. “The idea of an incentive is to encourage a business to do something that it was not going to do because of some risk,” Kasia Tarczynska, a senior research analyst for left-leaning incentives watchdog Good Jobs First , said. “Data centers are such a massive growth (industry) that there is no reason why state and local governments should provide incentives to this industry.” Boston-based TA Realty has been pursuing a 180-megawatt data center on this site since last year. The Clayton County Board of Commissioners approved the project’s site plan in a 3-1 vote last October during a meeting with strong resident opposition, according to the Clayton News Daily . TA Realty declined to comment about the project and its requested tax break. C. Harrison Braddy, chairman of the Clayton County Development Authority, said in the release the tax break is “a competitive incentive to encourage TA Realty to build its data center right here in Clayton County.” He did not respond to interview requests from The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. The authority declined to disclose the estimated property tax savings that TA Realty is expected to receive during a 10-year abatement period despite multiple requests. Invest Atlanta and the Development Authority of Fulton County , among others, routinely release estimates showing the value of incentive awards to companies. Clayton County’s authority, which is also known as Invest Clayton, has routinely declined to provide incentive estimates. “The people of Clayton County deserve to know when their government leaders are giving away tax breaks to companies,” Richard T. Griffiths, a former CNN executive and Georgia First Amendment Foundation board member, said last year when the authority approved a similar tax abatement . “They may well be great investments for the taxpayers, but they deserve to know the exact terms.” “The idea of an incentive is to encourage a business to do something that it was not going to do because of some risk,” Kasia Tarczynska, a senior research analyst for left-leaning incentives watchdog Good Jobs First , said. “Data centers are such a massive growth (industry) that there is no reason why state and local governments should provide incentives to this industry.” Boston-based TA Realty has been pursuing a 180-megawatt data center on this site since last year. The Clayton County Board of Commissioners approved the project’s site plan in a 3-1 vote last October during a meeting with strong resident opposition, according to the Clayton News Daily . TA Realty declined to comment about the project and its requested tax break. C. Harrison Braddy, chairman of the Clayton County Development Authority, said in the release the tax break is “a competitive incentive to encourage TA Realty to build its data center right here in Clayton County.” He did not respond to interview requests from The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. The authority declined to disclose the estimated property tax savings that TA Realty is expected to receive during a 10-year abatement period despite multiple requests. Invest Atlanta and the Development Authority of Fulton County , among others, routinely release estimates showing the value of incentive awards to companies. Clayton County’s authority, which is also known as Invest Clayton, has routinely declined to provide incentive estimates. “The people of Clayton County deserve to know when their government leaders are giving away tax breaks to companies,” Richard T. Griffiths, a former CNN executive and Georgia First Amendment Foundation board member, said last year when the authority approved a similar tax abatement . “They may well be great investments for the taxpayers, but they deserve to know the exact terms.” .sraey .sraey raey raey htiw lliw lliw litnu ot eht eht eht eht naht sexat xat xat sgnivas noitcuder eviecer eviecer ytreporp revo eno fo erom noillim gnisaercni ni ni yllaudarg lluf setamitse hcae dluoc ynapmoc detaluclac yb eb dessessa tnuoma tnuoma retfa a AT AT ytlaeR ytlaeR gnidroccA ,CJA %05 01 01 63$ .snoitcasnart hcus rof eef snrae gnirekorb ytirohtua osla a ehT lliw eht eht eht sexat tcejorp .doirep revo wen noillim ylekil ,evitnecni ni etareneg tnemetaba etipseD 39$ .sraey .sraey raey raey htiw lliw lliw litnu ot eht eht eht eht naht sexat xat xat sgnivas noitcuder eviecer eviecer ytreporp revo eno fo erom noillim gnisaercni ni ni yllaudarg lluf setamitse hcae dluoc ynapmoc detaluclac yb eb dessessa tnuoma tnuoma retfa a AT AT ytlaeR ytlaeR gnidroccA ,CJA %05 01 01 63$ .snoitcasnart hcus rof eef snrae gnirekorb ytirohtua osla a ehT lliw eht eht eht sexat tcejorp .doirep revo wen noillim ylekil ,evitnecni ni etareneg tnemetaba etipseD 39$ I“ notyalC“ ”.niw-niw lliw ylurt siht .dias eunever si gnitareneg morf eveileb nigeb a ”,enO yaD yddarB dluow hcihw ot ot ot er’yeht eseht eht eht xat etis laes emas stnenoporp ,stcejorp stcejorp secalp rehto no no fo dedeen ynam .daetsni ,revewoh og .yawaevig laed dluoc niatrec tliub eb eugra eugra ,yawyna gnitnuoma a evitnecnI ,scitirC ehT(“ eht eht .dias ssecorp fo ”,edam snoitacol )evitnecni dne snoisiced semoc ta era ydaerla retfa tuoba aksnyzcraT .srekrow srekrow lliw lliw eht eht taht naht yraropmet dias ylhguor esaeler tcejorp erom ynam .sboj ,sboj sedulcni emit-lluf erugif yolpme atad etaerc rotcartnoc noitcurtsnoc ,etelpmoc retnec tub s’ytirohtua sa dna tuoba ehT ecnO 007 03 ot eht lanoitarepo fo si detcepxe dne atad retnec yb eb ehT .6202 About the Author Zachary Hansen Zachary Hansen, a Georgia native, covers economic development and commercial real estate for the AJC. He's been with the newspaper since 2018 and enjoys diving into complex stories that affect people's lives. Zachary Hansen, a Georgia native, covers economic development and commercial real estate for the AJC. He's been with the newspaper since 2018 and enjoys diving into complex stories that affect people's lives. More Stories The Latest US won't renew Iranian and Russian oil waivers, Bessent says Justice Department drops criminal probe of Fed chair Powell, likely cleari