9 new data centers proposed in Colleton County Skip to content Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google COLLETON COUNTY, S.C. (WCSC) — Over 850 acres of land are currently being proposed to become data centers in Colleton County, but the community is raising concerns about what this would mean to the future of their livelihood and our environment. The property is currently zoned for rural development, and the owner and their partner are requesting a special exception to build nine data centers and two substations. “I wake up and walk out on my porch every morning and I hear cows mooing, I hear roosters crowing, I hear dogs barking, I hear my neighbor call their dogs in in the afternoons and those are the simple things in life,” resident Jennifer Singleton said. “Am I going to be able to hear that anymore? Am I going to be able to experience that? It’s not just about me, it’s about my community.” The land is filled with trees, wetlands and wildlife that local residents want to protect. “I think South Carolina really is at a decision point: what do we want our state to look like 20 years from now, 30 years from now?” resident and Climate Campaign Associate Robby Maynor said. “Do we want a lot of gas plants and pipelines and data centers? Or do we want to protect the things that make South Carolina special and unique? The ACE Basin is at the very top of that list. This is the absolute wrong location for a complex of this size.” In the application for the special zoning exception, the proposed data centers and the substations show the potential impact on this land, especially the wetlands, but some say the impact is even greater. “One thing that data centers have done, they’ve done everything they can. I tried as a state senator. I wanted to get their water usage, can’t get it. I don’t know what it is. What that means is it’s extremely high and threatens other users,” South Carolina Senator Chip Campsen said. “As a property owner, am I going to wake up one day, five years from now, and turn my faucet on? Is there going to be water that comes out of my faucet and is it going to be clean water?” Singleton said. In the special exception application, they say these data centers will provide new jobs and will meet the natural buffer requirements, but those concerned say, at what cost? “if it weren’t for data centers, we would not have to build new generating capacity in South Carolina for 15 years, now we are already behind” Campsen said. On the property, there are also gravestones dating back to the 1800s. “Colleton County has to decide if this rural area is appropriate for a massive data center campus that’s along the lines of an industrial park.” Maynor said. Special Exception Case No. SE-2025-139 was submitted by Thomas & Hutton and Eagle Rock Partners on behalf of property owner Weyerhaeuser Company. The applicant seeks a special exception to permit a data center campus under Colleton County Ordinance 25-O-10. The property is zoned Rural Development-2 (RD-2), which allows a data center by special exception. The site comprises approximately 859 acres at 0 Cooks Hill Road, a portion of Tax Map No. 209-00-00-001. Right off the property are also residential homes. “There’s a better place for this if it has to happen other than in a rural community,” Singleton said. A request for comment to the developer and the county was made, but there has been no response about this proposal to make a special exception for this property that is currently zoned as rural development. “This thing deserves a fight because it doesn’t need to be here,” Singleton said. The Board of Appeals is holding a public hearing on Dec. 18 at 5:30 p.m. at the Colleton Civic Center located at 494 Hampton Street, Walterboro, to discuss the future of these data centers. The local community is also holding its own meeting to discuss the proposal on Dec. 16 at 6 p.m. at 1681 Rodeo Road. Copyright 2025 WCSC. All rights reserved. Most Read Summerville man accused of pointing and presenting weapon at Ashley Ridge High Are you now a Canadian citizen? Here’s the new law’s criteria Colleton County man gets max sentence after children found living in filth Report: Woman killed in 'freak accident' at Summerville drive-thru did not hit accelerator Roadkill found inside Chinese restaurant’s freezer, police say UK passes bill that will eventually ban cigarette purchases North Charleston man sentenced in 2020 deadly crime spree Man who attacked ex-wife during reconciliation trip on Hilton Head gets 15 years Latest News Moncks Corner hosts first ‘Light It Up Blue’ event for Autism Awareness Month VIDEO: Moncks Corner hosts first ‘Light It Up Blue’ event for Autism Awareness Month Jamestown officials call for intersection upgrades after recent crash SLED charges Charleston County man with lottery fraud Sexual assault center hosts resource fair in Charleston VIDEO: Jamestown officials call for intersection upgrades after recent crash VIDEO: SLED charges Charleston County man with lottery fraud VIDEO: Sexual assault center hosts resource fair in Charleston