Aligned acquires two plots in Phoenix, plans two campuses totaling 400MW - DCD Home News Construction & Site Selection Aligned acquires two plots in Phoenix, plans two campuses totaling 400MW Details on timelines or location not shared October 12, 2022 By Dan Swinhoe Have your say Aligned has announced a large-scale expansion of its footprint in Phoenix, Arizona, with plans for two new campuses. The company this week announced two new land acquisitions totaling approximately two million square feet (185,800 sqm) and potentially offering more than 400MW of IT load. – Wikimedia Commons Details about the specifications, locations, or timelines of either campus were not shared. “Aligned is focused on meeting the capacity demands of our customers today, while constantly innovating across every aspect of our business to ensure their future data center requirements will be met long-term,” said Andrew Schaap, CEO of Aligned. “Our expansion in greater Phoenix is an example of Aligned’s power-first approach to asset procurement as well as strategic investments across our design and construction, supply chain, and vendor-managed inventory program, and team to deliver capacity at maximum speed and scale.” The company said its new Phoenix campuses will include patented Delta³ cooling technology with a waterless heat rejection system. Opened in 2017 and expanded in 2018 , Aligned’s existing 55-acre Phoenix campus at 2500 W Union Hills Drive has room for 550,000 sq ft of data center and 180MW of capacity. In March the company announced the planned development of PHX-05 , a greenfield build-to-suit deployment, at the campus. Aligned didn’t share specifications, but said the facility would be built to an ‘aggressive timeline’. 2022 has seen Aligned announce plans for new developments in Sterling , Virginia; Plano , Texas; and Salt Lake City , Utah; buy land at Quantum Loophole’s gigawatt campus in Maryland; and complete projects in Chicago , Illinois, and Salt Lake City . Earlier this year, the company extended its sustainability-linked loan by more than $1 billion . Get a weekly roundup of North America news, direct to your inbox. Thank you for your North American news subscription More in Construction & Site Selection Leading Surveys accelerates data center layout and floor level measurement with HP SitePrint 23 Apr 2026 Harford County, Maryland, could impose 90-day moratorium on data centers Episode Tech showcase: Building an AI-ready data center in Spain using a modular approach More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 08 Apr 2026 Motorola Solutions pairs with T-Mobile for satellite connectivity Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback Tags Aligned Data Centers Aligned Energy Aligned Arizona Phoenix Comments