Why are Troup County residents saying no to a 600 MW data center in Hogansville? | Georgia Public Broadcasting Skip to main content Messages Banner Image Section Branding Header Content Tagged as: News News Why are Troup County residents saying no to a 600 MW data center in Hogansville? November 26, 2025 8:30 AM By: Kala Hunter and The Ledger Enquirer Share this page Share this page on Twitter Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Email Share this page on Print Primary Content Caption Wondering how many data centers there are in Georgia? While the number of data centers is hard to find, a data center database suggests there are 160, and Science for Georgia says there are at least 100. But research indicates the Peach State became the fastest-growing data center hub in America earlier this year, according to law firm McGuireWoods. Credit: Kala Hunter/Ledger-Enquirer In the northeast corner of Troup County, a 437-acre plot of land on the outskirts of the 3,000-person town of Hogansville has become the center of debate between residents and their city officials as a developer vies to purchase the land and build a data center. While there is still no publicly announced timeline for a data center, and a piece of land still needs to be zoned for industrial use in order for the data center to be constructed there, a small group of people have already raised objections because they’re concerned the data center would damage property values , eat up energy resources (including significant amounts of water) and raise utility bills. Some residents also have taken issue with the city keeping the development plans secret for at least 18 months because a non-disclosure agreement was signed by city council and the mayor of Hogansville, according to Councilman Michael Taylor Jr. Caption Wanda Lowe, Ellen Davis and Roseanne Prado discuss their concerns about a proposed data center in Hogansville. Credit: Kala Hunter/Ledger-Enquirer “At every city council meeting, (councilmembers) talk about transparency; they use the word over and over again,” Roseanna Prado, Hogansville resident, told the Ledger-Enquirer during a meeting in her living room in November. “I’m not sure what their definition of transparency is, but mine certainly isn’t keeping something like this from the public.” In October, Roseanna Prado’s husband, Al Prado, sent an open records request to the city of Hogansville requesting all documents about data centers. He did this after learning from anti-data center activist Gage Bailey, from neighboring LaGrange, who is an advocate for getting cities to pass legal restrictions on data centers. The documents the Prados got back showed that Luis Matta, a developer from Fayetteville who works for Fertile Ground Investments LLC and sits on the Board of Directors for the Fayette County Development Authority , had communicated with the city and the Hogansville Development Authority to agree on a major land acquisition: 437 acres for $12,000 per acre, according to the documents. Documents provided to the Ledger-Enquirer through an open records request confirmed Matta’s communication with the development authority. The sale is contingent upon the land being rezoned from residential to industrial property, the records show. Matta and the Fayette County Development Authority are overseeing development of one of the largest data center campus projects in Georgia. The documents also showed a power study conducted by MEAG, the municipal electric company group for Hogansville, which assessed how feasible it would be to bring 600 megawatts of electricity online, which is how much energy the data center may need, according to MEAG documents obtained through a open records request. Residents say that all they know about this proposal is the acreage and the amount of power needed. “It’s infuriating,” said Paula Darden, a retired nurse who moved to Hogansville in 1967. Since Prado got ahold of the documents, Burdette, Darden and the two LaGrange anti-data center leaders Cyndie Hutchings and Bailey, met with the city in early November. They say they still haven’t heard much from officials. “We can’t even find out what the data center is, so that we can ask questions about what electricity type (will be used), (how much) water, how many diesel turbines are you going to have out there? We can’t ask specific questions about what’s going to happen at that data center, because we don’t know,” Darden said in the Prados’ living room. The lone ‘no’ voice on the council so far Hogansville Mayor Jake Ayers said during a re-election debate that “there’s a lot of misinformation” about data centers, and didn’t directly answer a question about whether he supports or opposes them. While Ayers could not make it to the meeting with Burdette, Darden, Hutchings and Bailey, City Manager Lisa Kelly and Taylor did attend. When first elected to the city council in 2020, Taylor was 25, the youngest to ever serve in Hogansville’s history. Today, the 29-year-old is the lone councilman who has openly opposed the proposed data center and is open to passing a moratorium, which the group wants Hogansville to do. “As of right now, I am not for it,” Taylor told the Ledger-Enquirer . “A lot of people have spoken out against it, and I’m big on representing the people who have trust in my leadership.” Caption Councilmember Michael Taylor Jr. during the Nov. 17 council meeting. Credit: Ledger-Enquirer/Kala Hunter Taylor also said the tax revenue from the data center deal with Fertile Grounds would bring about $400,000 per year, but he is concerned about the lack of jobs, people living nearby and emissions created from generators at the data center. “At the end of the day, it’s only going to bring about 30 to 35 jobs,” he said. “There are people and a zoo across the street from where it would go. What type of emissions is it going to produce from different generators?” he rhetorically posed to the Ledger-Enquirer . Taylor also said a moratorium makes sense if enough people are concerned about this. In September, LaGrange created a 180-day moratorium following Troup County’s 90-day moratorium . The resistance group has strong Hogansville roots Taylor’s view aligns with Mary Margaret Ware, another resident who was present at Prado’s living room gathering. “Whatever development is done, whatever decisions this city council and mayor make, they need to make it for what’s best for the citizens that live here right now,” she said. “What is the best thing you can do to improve their life? Bringing in jobs is not necessarily the best thing for what we need.” Ware left her hometown of Atlanta decades ago with her husband, who’s from Hogansville, and never looked back. In Prado’s living room, a storied web of deeply rooted connections were shared, emblematic of the 3,000-person town. In just a few sentences of exchanges, history going back decades reveal just how small Hogansville is: “Your father delivered my husband,” Ware joked to Darden. “Paula’s mother-in-law was my second-grade teacher,” Burdette said. “My folks met here in 1956, and my mom taught Ellen (Davis) in high school for a year.” Caption A group of Hogansville residents meeting about a proposed data center nearby. (Paula Darden, Ellen Davis, Roseanna Prado, Mary Margaret Ware, Ila Burdette) Credit: Kala Hunter/Ledger-Enquirer “My dad and mother built the house two doors up, that’s where I was born,” Davis said. “These are where my roots are.” “My dad and mother built that white house over there,” Darden said, as she pointed out Al Prado’s window. Al Prado and his wife Roseanna are the newest residents of the group, with just an 8-year tenure in their 1902 home on Main Avenue in Hogansville. Hogansville has an annual Hummingbird Festival that attracts artisans and craftspeople, raising millions of dollars for the city, which is satisfactory to this group as far as development goes. “All (the city government) thinks about is new rooftops and development