Major Bitcoin mining firm pivoting to AI, plans to fully abandon crypto mining by 2027 as miners convert to AI en masse — Bitfarm to leverage 341 megawatt capacity for AI following $46 million Q3 loss | Tom's Hardware Skip to main content Don't miss these (Image credit: Getty / Valeria Mongelli) Copy link Facebook X Whatsapp Reddit Pinterest Flipboard Email Share this article 12 Join the conversation Follow us Add us as a preferred source on Google Newsletter Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware Newsletter Get Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. You are now subscribed Your newsletter sign-up was successful An account already exists for this email address, please log in. Subscribe to our newsletter Major Bitcoin mining firm Bitfarm has announced that it will pivot its business from cryptocurrency to AI data center services by 2027. Although it’s not the largest crypto mining firm in the U.S., it still has a sizeable operation with 12 data centers dedicated to Bitcoin mining. According to Decrypt , the company’s current energy capacity sits at 341 megawatts (MW), which it could take advantage of to deploy several thousand Nvidia GB300 NVL72 server racks. “We continue executing on our HPC/AI infrastructure development strategy with a fully funded supply chain and plan to convert our Washington site to support Nvidia GB300s with state-of-the-art liquid cooling,” said Bitfarms CEO Ben Gagnon in a statement to Decrypt . “Despite being less than 1% of our total developable portfolio, we believe that the conversion of just our Washington site to GPU-as-a-service could potentially produce more net operating income than we have ever generated with Bitcoin mining.” Bitfarm posted a $46 million net loss during its third-quarter earnings call, which is almost a 91% year-on-year increase in net losses from 3Q2024. Although Bitcoin reached an all-time high in early October, its volatility meant that the company could not consistently rely on it for its operating costs. Aside from this, its new T21 mining rigs did not perform as expected, leading to a 14% reduction in its hashrate guidance for 1H25. Article continues below Alongside its plan to convert its Washington data center, the company also converted a Macquarie debt facility worth $300 million into financing for its Panther Creek, Pennsylvania, data center, with a potential capacity of at least 350 MW. This site, which adds to the company’s 1.3-GW energy pipeline, could potentially make it one of the larger players in the AI data center industry. At the moment, Bitfarm has 341 MW of energized capacity, meaning it does not have to negotiate with power providers and local governments to acquire more power for its data centers. This would help them avoid the power bottleneck that other hyperscalers like Microsoft are experiencing, with its CEO, Satya Nadella, saying that the company has AI GPUs sitting idle in inventory because it does not have enough warm shells to plug into. This pivot would help Bitfarm capitalize on the massive demand for AI processing. However, it’s also taking more risks, especially as many experts are saying that the AI industry is already in a bubble . With the investment to completely move from crypto mining to AI data centers expected to cost hundreds of millions, if not billions, of dollars, a crash of the AI industry could potentially bring down the company and take the lending institution with it, alongside several other companies, and lead to trillions in losses . Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News , or add us as a preferred source , to get our latest news, analysis, & reviews in your feeds. Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware Newsletter Get Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors TOPICS See all comments (12) Jowi Morales Contributing Writer Jowi Morales is a tech enthusiast with years of experience working in the industry. He’s been writing with several tech publications since 2021, where he’s been interested in tech hardware and consumer electronics. 12 Comments Comment from the forums especially as many experts are saying that the AI industry is already in a bubble. unless you are not in the sphere of tech or you are involved in company profiting from "ai" then you know its a bubble. its an even worse bubble than crypto was as crypto had actual profit for those who farmed it. "ai" has nothing for the average joe. It is entirely beneficial to the corpo world to replace humans as the main workforce and make their lines go up. "ai" atm is a straight vertical line on profitability. They will NEVER make the $ invested back as they have no idea HOW to profit from it outside niche ai gen art/music/etc which isnt even a drop in the ocean to what they spend. Even in the ideal future one of em manages AGI (extremely unlikely) ...the rest of them lose everything instantly. it would drop their company value to $0 immediately as they failed the race. On the topic of them switching..it is, as a business, the right thing to do as they are losing $ mining and they can sell their power to ai for a premium due to the high demand. Reply Tulips were once a thing until they weren't. Reply Bitcoin if you immediately sell the coin you can quickly determine if you are profitable day to day related to the power consumption and overhead costs. AI is a complete gamble especially if they try to do AI themselves rather than just sell capacity to all other risk takers who are trying to sell AI services. If they could convert the mining machine directly to AI usage might be a option if they are not making much mining coins. Reading the article it seems they are talking about buying a bunch of new AI servers. All they have already is ability to run these servers unlike others who are shopping around for electrical power. I wonder how long they feel the break even point is on the servers. In worse case they want to have all the servers paid for before the AI bubble bursts. If they still own money on just the servers they likely are going out of business also. All going to depend on if the one or two companies that find a way to be profitable selling AI can absorb all the data centers and these nvidia AI racks used by the failed AI implementations. Reply I'm glad to see people moving from a get rich scheme to something that's actually useful. Cypto needs to die. Reply hotaru251 said: "ai" has nothing for the average joe. Are you kidding? Pretty much everyone from highschool kids to professionals are using AI these days. It's the biggest revolution since the search engine. Reply ET3D said: Are you kidding? Pretty much everyone from highschool kids to professionals are using AI these days. It's the biggest revolution since the search engine. Only way highschool kids are using it if it is for free. Once the AI companies start to charge enough to recover their power costs they will not be able to allow it for free. How many people are going to pay a monthly fee that likely constantly increases. Reply I find it reassuring that all the energy infrastructure built for the crypto-mines can be viewed as reserve capacity ready for something more useful. Reply How do you profit from AI ? rent the servers to others or make your own platform ? This is far resources demanding than simply bit coining. Reply call101010 said: How do you profit from AI ? rent the servers to others or make your own platform ? This is far resources demanding than simply bit coining. The obvious strategy is gather a bunch of investors together, have some nice dinners with wine and cheese, then land