Seattle, WA and Colocation in WA - EdgeConneX Search Search Home / Americas / Seattle, WA SEA01 Seattle Data Center Empower Your Edge in Seattle, WA The Seattle EdgeConneX Edge Data Center® (EDC) has been purpose-built and precisely located in order to provide a secure colocation facility for customers wishing to deliver content and applications to local-market consumers, with the lowest possible latency. Partnering with network and cable operators at the local level, our carrier neutral facility guarantees the shortest and fastest routes for delivering content to local market subscribers (consumer and enterprise) and Internet customers. The EdgeConneX Seattle SEA01 data center earned ENERGY STAR® certification from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. This certification represents proven, verified superior energy performance over a 12-month period. The EdgeConneX Seattle data center has achieved a UL 2799 Landfill Diversion certification. Learn more about Seattle in this feature: Seattle: Well Connected and Renewable Download Data Sheet Request a Virtual Tour Capacity Quote SEA-01 At A Glance Some facts and figures you need to know about our Seattle, WA data center Size 47,000 sq. ft. facility 9 miles from downtown Seattle 5 miles from SEA-TAC International Airport 11,300 sq. ft. raised floor Specifications Space 47,000 sq ft facility 11,300 sq ft of raised floor for tenant racks Within 9 miles from downtown SEA and 5 miles from Seattle- Tacoma International Airport Customer work space available Space available for secure customer storage WiFi network access and cell phone repeaters/boosters throughout the facility Power Concurrently maintainable power in a minimum of an N+1 configuration to include: – PDU – UPS – Generators Capable of 20+kW per cabinet Capable of 600+ watts per sq ft Ghost space not required for cooling power dense installations Real-time branch circuit monitoring Cooling Temperature and humidity monitored, controlled and managed to industry standards 30 inch raised/under floor forced air plenum N+1 CRACs located in separate suites, maximizing customer- designated areas Security Multi-stage security containment systems that use PIN and live video authentication Mantraps and strictly enforced protocols regarding entry access 24/7 Color CCTV/video surveillanceand >90-day online video storage Interior managed security zones National network operations centerfor security management 24/7 NOC services Network Building POEs are diverse, with a variety offiber conduits to physically diverse MMR’s Astound, Cogent, Comcast, Console Connect, Hurricane Electric, Lumen, WhiteSky, Zayo Interconnection services available Fire Suppression Pre-action, zoned dry-pipe sprinkler systems with zoned maintenance aisles and separate suites Additional Services Remote hands services for break fixes, configuration and troubleshooting EdgeConneX Services: design, build, implement and maintain your equipment infrastructure HIPAA, SOC 2 Type 2, PCI-DSS, ISO 27001 compliant EdgeOS EdgeOS, our next generation data center operating system provides real-time visibility, including ticketing and SLA management for all EDC locations Learn More About Our Data Center in Seattle, WA Use this form to request more information or schedule a data center tour in Seattle. Or, call us at +1.866.304.3217. Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. First Name * Last Name * Email * Message CAPTCHA download × Close Panel