Google confirms it is behind 403-acre data center campus in Hermantown, Minnesota - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel Google confirms it is behind 403-acre data center campus in Hermantown, Minnesota Site plans suggest four data centers would be developed March 04, 2026 By Georgia Butler Have your say Google has confirmed it is the company behind the 403-acre data center campus project in Hermantown, Minnesota. As reported by MPRNews , Google has confirmed its role in the development, describing the area as a "natural fit for this project, offering a climate that supports energy-efficient air cooling, a resilient power grid, and a dedicated and motivated workforce.” – City of Hermantown Minnesota Hermantown is a suburb of Duluth, a port city in eastern Minnesota. The project, set for a 403-acre parcel bounded to the north by Morris Thomas Road, to the east by Midway Road, and to the west by Solway Road, was approved by the Hermantown City Council in October 2025 . Based on the site plans, around four data center buildings could be developed on the campus. Construction is estimated to be fully completed within five to 10 years. Developer Mortensen has since withdrawn its special use permit application, as the company said it was weighing potential changes to the proposal and aimed to hold a community open house before resubmitting. Google has also revealed that it has signed an electric service agreement with Minnesota Power, which will see 700MW of clean energy resources developed, including 300MW of wind power and 400MW of battery storage capacity. The expected power draw of the data center has not been stated. “Google’s reputation and focus on sustainability and their goals being so synergistic with Minnesota Power’s energy forward strategy and our decarbonization goals have made it very exciting to work with a customer like Google,” said Julie Pierce, the VP of strategy and planning at Minnesota Power. Amanda Peterson Corio, global head of data center energy at Google, added: "This collaboration with Minnesota Power serves as a model for how large-scale digital infrastructure can facilitate the expansion of clean energy and battery storage while contributing to local energy affordability.” Google will pay for all the infrastructure necessary for the development. Elsewhere in Minnesota, Google is developing a data center in Pine Island . The project is being developed in partnership with the city of Pine Island and Minnesota utility Xcel Energy, with the latter supplying power to the new data center. The company has previously sought to develop in Minnesota. In December 2022 , the company pulled out of a planned data center in Becker, a city northwest of Minneapolis in Sherburne County. The company has been in talks to develop the $600 million site near the Sherco power plant since 2017, but subsequently pulled out of the project. More in Construction & Site Selection How Foresight prevented $100M in delays and cut reporting overhead by 90% for a global data center portfolio 19 Feb 2026 Skybox to develop data center campus in Wichita Falls, Texas Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? More in Cloud & Hyperscale The 16-Fiber Revolution 12 Jan 2026 E2E Networks acquires 1,024 Nvidia B200 GPU cluster for Chennai data center Episode Scaling the Cloud without losing control Tags Amanda Peterson Corio Google Hermantown Minnesota Minnesota Power Comments