After St. Charles pressed pause, City of St. Louis considering data center moratorium Skip to content Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google ST. LOUIS, Mo. (First Alert 4) - St. Charles already put a pause on data centers. Now the City of St. Louis is considering a similar moratorium. As companies continue to grow their artificial intelligence capacity, they need more and more data centers to compute the data. These large buildings bring some incentives, but they also use significant amounts of energy and water. City lawmakers are considering a pause to gather more information. “I think they should try it, see how it goes,” said city resident Lamont Reynolds. As technology, especially artificial intelligence, grows, Reynolds wants his city to at least look into allowing for more data centers. “This is such an emerging technology,” said SLU sociology professor Ness Sandoval. Sandoval is researching data centers for a project, and says, while there are tax benefits and it would lead to short-term jobs, there is a lot of fear and uncertainty around them. “We don’t know what the long-term benefits are,” said Sandoval. Off 11th and Olive, you can already find two data centers — TierPoint and Netrality. Over in the old Armory lot, GreenStreet Real Estate wants to spend $600 million on a project there, and one of its leaders said earlier this year that he hopes to put a data center on the site. In addition, consultant Christine Guimbarda said an unnamed developer is considering one near the River City Casino in south St. Louis. In St. Charles, the city placed a one-year moratorium on data centers to get a better handle on the issue after a public outcry. “A one-year moratorium is at least a good start,” said Clifford Spinner, a St. Charles resident. In the city, Planning Commission head Don Roe wrote last week that because of the city’s outdated zoning code, the city either needs to quickly get regulations in place or also consider a pause “while the City develops a full understanding of the issue and develops quality land use, environmental, and other regulations.” Sandoval says data centers could help fill vacant buildings in the city. “If these centers don’t get built, the question is what are you able to do with these buildings that aren’t being used,” Sandoval says. Guimbarda said on the phone that tech jobs will likely follow any data center project, helping to revitalize neighborhoods. “If we find out five years from now that they are truly this epicenter of economic development and we see businesses around them develop, then the city would regret it,” Guimbarda said. Sandoval adds data centers don’t necessarily have to be built in St. Louis or even Missouri, but they do need to be built somewhere in the United States, or there could be issues. “It’ll put the United States at disadvantage. We would be lacking in our advances,” Sandoval says. Meanwhile, Mayor Cara Spencer said in a statement she isn’t seeking to ban data centers but supports a pause, citing concerns about the environment and utility prices. “I also recognize their importance to key industries in St. Louis, including biotech, the geospatial field, agtech and health care, and my office is working closely with the Board of Aldermen and key stakeholders to propose responsible regulations to allow for their appropriate development,” said Spencer. Copyright 2025 KMOV. All rights reserved. Most Read 1 dead in crash after semitruck loses tire on eastbound I-64 Ray Hartmann, founder of the Riverfront Times, dies in crash Lots Of Sunshine This Weekend, Monday Is A First Alert Weather Day Suspect charged after officer-involved shooting in Wildwood ‘This driver may have been doing everything right’: Man dies after semi wheel hits vehicle on I-64 Bicyclist dies, driver flees after crash in south St. Louis Earthquake in Mo. Bootheel upgraded to M4.0 Convicted hitman in Collinsville murder-for-hire sentenced to life in prison Latest News Ferguson residents wrestle with project including a data center, as incentives package awaits the city council’s decision Sen. Hawley calls for end to federal funding for Missouri reproductive health nonprofit Cyclist killed in hit-and-run crash in south St. Louis Belleville man charged with attempted murder, accused of shooting person multiple times Weezy’s Bar & Grill is a popular pit stop on Route 66 Riverview City Hall contacts jailed mayor over 70 times in first month of arrest New $2 million fire training facility opens in Shrewsbury St. Louis Kaplan Feldman Holocaust Museum reaches visitor milestone