Jasper County residents voice concerns over proposed data center development | Top Stories | koamnewsnow.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Breaking: KOAM+ 24/7 News Live updates all day, breaking news as it happens and weather every 10 minutes Resize: × Latest Videos FL: FIREFIGHTERS FACE EXHAUSTION BATTLING WILDFIRE Missouri Southern sweeps doubleheader versus Newman PSU steals series opener over Hillcats in walk-off fashion Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save JASPER COUNTY, MO. - Residents in Jasper County are raising concerns about a proposed data park development by Geronimo Power, with community members organizing to address potential impacts on their rural area. Geronimo Power representatives recently presented plans to Sarcoxie residents for data centers that could be built on property along County Road 20. Images obtained by community members suggest this location as a potential site for the development. Rhys Hine, who lives near the proposed site, has emerged as a vocal opponent of the project. He created a Facebook group to keep residents informed and coordinate community response efforts. "I know it's inevitable," he said. "They have to happen just based off of how technology is moving forward. But I'm against it because there's a place for it and that place is not rural America. That should belong in places that infrastructure is already built to handle it." Lindsay Smith, Geronimo Power's vice president of external affairs, maintains that the data park could benefit the community economically. She emphasizes the importance of accurate information as residents evaluate the proposal. "Do your research, but also make sure that you're comparing the facts of our site to our site and not comparing a site that may have been developed in a totally different state, under totally different circumstances to what we might be developing here in the community," she said. Smith stressed that no final decisions have been made regarding the Jasper County project. The company, which was founded by a farmer, wants direct input from community members. "Come talk to us. Our doors are open," Smith said. "We really want to have the dialog, and we want to hear your questions. And we want to work with you to bring the project to life in a way that really suits the local area." COPYRIGHT 2025 BY KOAM NEWS NOW. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. THIS MATERIAL MAY NOT BE PUBLISHED, BROADCAST, REWRITTEN OR REDISTRIBUTED. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Kenny Forman Author email Follow Kenny Forman Most Popular Peoria Ridge Golf Course to close in Miami permanently EF1 strikes NW Joplin causing damage Two survive emergency aircraft landing near Chanute after engine failure Pilots tell their story of crashing near Chanute EF4, 170 mph winds blew through Enid and Vance Air Force Base Latest News Expanded tattoo guidelines allow immediate blood donation in six states Two Pittsburg schools placed on lockdowns as police searched for suspect Missouri DNR seeks public comment on hazardous waste permit in Joplin Petition effort to force public vote on Joplin data center falls short Joplin job fair supports workers impacted by Hopkins manufacturing closure More News TOP VIDEOS © Copyright 2026 KOAM - KOAMNewsNow.com 2950 NE Highway 69, Galena, KS | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info Your California Privacy Rights | Advertise | EEO and Public Files | FCC Applications