Unnamed company looks to build $576 million data center in Cedar Rapids | Local Government and Community News | thegazette.com Skip to main content You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Share This Facebook Twitter Bluesky WhatsApp SMS Email Facebook Twitter Bluesky WhatsApp SMS Email The Gazette offers audio versions of articles using Instaread. Some words may be mispronounced. Facebook Twitter Bluesky WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter Bluesky WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save A map shows the location of the Big Cedar Industrial Center, the state’s first mega development site, during an Oct. 24, 2018, presentation at the Alliant Energy hangar at The Eastern Iowa Airport in Cedar Rapids. An unnamed company is looking into building a $576 million data center on the land. (Jim Slosiarek/The Gazette) CEDAR RAPIDS — An unnamed company is seeking city and state financial incentives to build a massive $576 million data center in the Big Cedar Industrial Center that would create at least 31 new high-paying jobs. In the coming weeks, the Cedar Rapids City Council is slated to consider a development agreement with Heaviside LLC for the project to build one or more data centers along 76th Avenue SW and Edgewood Road SW in the Big Cedar Industrial Center. While Heaviside is named, the company that will occupy the development is not. The city in recent years has awarded incentives to build massive warehouses and other buildings in the rapidly growing southwest quadrant, including Kitchen appliance company SubZero’s $140.6 million light manufacturing building, FedEx’s new $108.6 million distribution center and BAE Systems’ $139 million classified defense aerospace facility that employs 800. But the data center project, if approved, could surpass even those major investments and would be among the largest — if not the largest — economic development project in Cedar Rapids history. The proposed development would create 31 new full-time employees paid at or above the high-quality wage rate. Construction is anticipated to start within three years of the development agreement taking effect An 890-acre certified portion of the overall Big Cedar site is Iowa's first mega site, which offers hundreds of acres of development-ready land to potential developers. All 1,391 acres are controlled by Alliant Energy. Incentives Under the terms outlined in council documents, the company could receive a 20-year, 70 percent tax exemption so long as it meets employment thresholds and the high-quality job application is approved. The earliest Iowa Economic Development Authority board meeting where that would be considered is March 15. If it’s not approved, according to council documents , “the city agrees to work in good faith to provide comparable Tax Increment Financing (TIF) rebates in lieu of the tax exemption.” To attract the massive data centers that have invested billions in Iowa from tech companies, including Google, Facebook and Microsoft, the Iowa Economic Development Authority pitches Iowa on its website as having “affordable and ample wind energy, a stable grid, a high density of telecommunications infrastructure and low costs for construction projects.” Other financial incentives include: A 20-year, 75 percent economic development rebate of franchise fees collected by Cedar Rapids through the electrical provider for each data center constructed. A monthly credit of $1.30 per cubic feet of gray wastewater discharge, provided by the city. Per-unit credit would escalate each year at 2.5 percent, up to 57 percent for per-unit sewer discharge rate. The company would give annual community betterment payments to the city “to increase economic development activities, including growth of amenities and infrastructure.” There would be yearly payments of $400,000 per data center for 15 years with a maximum of $6 million per data center — $36 million total. The company would provide necessary easements to serve the site, including extension of utilities. The developer must cooperate with the city on any potential Revitalize Iowa’s Sound Economy (RISE) grants, if the city is eligible and applies for one. The council in August rezoned the land west of Edgewood Road SW and north of 76th Avenue SW from light industrial and agriculture to general industrial, as requested by Alliant, seemingly paving the way for this project. Another project? Another project could be in the works there after the council in January rezoned a large portion of Big Cedar to accommodate intensive industrial users. A 245-acre parcel on the western side of the site — north of 76th Avenue SW and west of Tissel Hollow Road SW — was rezoned from agricultural district to general industrial district. Comments: (319) 398-8494; marissa.payne@thegazette.com Facebook Twitter Bluesky WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Special Sections Join our Newsletter Get the latest headlines from The Gazette in your inbox. Cancel anytime. Sign Up! Loading... Sign Up! Loading... Thank you! You have successfully joined. Please add 'newsletters@thegazette.com' to your contacts. Share Your Voice Share Your Voice Your trust matters to us. Share your thoughts or suggest a story here. Submit Trending Now Iowa State University to close or consolidate 23 academic programs Vanessa Miller The Gazette Five shot in early-morning fight on Iowa City Ped Mall John McGlothlen Marion man dies while serving life sentence for sexual abuse, kidnapping of Cedar Rapids woman in 1981 Trish Mehaffey The Gazette Former Iowa men’s basketball forward Alvaro Folgueiras announces transfer destination Madison Hricik The Gazette Latest e-Edition The Gazette To view our latest eEdition, click the image on the left. © Copyright 2026 The Gazette 116 3rd St SE, Cedar Rapids, IA | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital . Back × Log In Register You are logged in Switch accounts Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. Back × Sign Up Account processing issue - the email address may already exist User information Username (Optional) This is the name that will be displayed next to your photo for comments, blog posts, and more. Choose wisely! * Email Address Your email address will be used to confirm your account. We won't share it with anyone else. * Password Create a password that only you will remember. If you forget it, you'll be able to recover it using your email address. * Confirm Password Confirm your password. CAPTCHA Create Account or Sign up with Newzware Have an account? Log In × You're all set! Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. OK Back × Log In Invalid password or account does not exist Email Address Password Remember me Forgot your password? Log In Email me a log in link or Sign in with Newzware Admin login Subscribe Need an account? Sign Up Back × Reset Password Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. Email or Screen Name CAPTCHA Reset Password × Forgot Password An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. Back × Email me a log in link Account Email CAPTCHA Send Email Back × Promotional Offers Enter Promo Code Redeem No promotional rates found. Back × Purchase Gift Purchase Access × An error occurred × Secure & Encrypted Sign in with Email Address Continue with Email Address or Continue with Newzware What's your email address? Email Password Confirm password Who is this gift for? Recipient name Recipient email Optional message for the recipient Who is this gift from? Purchaser name Purchaser email Delivery date Delivery date What's your billing location? State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Mi