Vantage Data Centers Unveils Plans for “Frontier,” a $25B Mega-campus in Texas to Meet Unprecedented AI Demand - Vantage Data Centers Skip to content DENVER (Aug. 19, 2025) – Vantage Data Centers, a leading global provider of hyperscale data centers, today announced its largest investment to date of over $25 billion to develop a mega-scale 1.4GW data center campus in Shackelford County, Texas. The state-of-the-art campus, “Frontier,” will lead to advancements in AI and employ more than 5,000 individuals across construction and ongoing operations. Situated on 1,200 acres, Vantage’s Frontier campus is the largest across its global portfolio. The campus will be home to 10 data centers totaling 3.7 million square feet and can accommodate ultra high-density racks of 250kW+. To meet the unique and evolving needs of AI deployments, Frontier will utilize liquid cooling to support next generation GPU loads. Construction on the campus has already begun, with the first building scheduled for delivery in the second half of 2026. Frontier will align with Vantage’s “sustainable by design” blueprint. The campus is optimized to preserve resources in the community and will use a highly efficient closed-loop chiller system which requires minimal water for cooling, saving billions of gallons of water annually. In addition, Vantage is pursuing LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification for the campus. “Texas has become a critical and strategic market for AI providers. In particular, the launch of our Frontier campus with 1.4GW of GPU compute capacity marks a watershed moment for Vantage as we deliver on our promise to meet the unprecedented requirements of our customers,” said Dana Adams, president of North America, at Vantage Data Centers. “This investment in Texas will be a significant economic growth driver for the area as we rapidly deploy the digital infrastructure needed to support AI applications. We look forward to being part of such a welcoming and proud community.” “Everything is bigger in Texas, and that includes innovation and technology,” said Governor Greg Abbott. “Vantage Data Centers’ $25 billion investment to build a new data center campus will help create thousands of good-paying jobs for Texans and bring revenue to the local and state economies. Partnering with job-creating and innovative businesses like Vantage, Texas will continue to be a national and global leader in this emerging frontier.” “‘Frontier’ is an apt name for the Vantage Data Centers’ campus and a palpable recognition of the history and mindset still present in our region and particularly Shackelford County,” said John Viertel, county judge for Shackelford County. “We look forward to the many years of working with Vantage as they become involved with local initiatives, providing educational and job opportunities for our children and ourselves, contributing significantly to the financial upkeep and betterment of our local communities, all while providing a valuable service and product in the digital brave new world.” As part of its commitment to community partnerships and cross-sector collaboration, Vantage will work closely with general contractors, trade partners, local community organizations and educational institutions to create shared value across the state. Vantage is committed to making financial contributions to local charities, has pledged college scholarships annually for Shackelford County students throughout the lifespan of the project and plans to hire locally while providing numerous training opportunities. About Vantage Data Centers Vantage Data Centers is a global leader in digital infrastructure serving the world’s most influential AI and cloud providers. With operations spanning North America, EMEA and Asia Pacific, Vantage delivers capacity at unrivaled speed and scale, driven by a relentless commitment to operational excellence and customer success. Vantage is empowering transformative companies to shape the future. For more information, visit https://www.vantage-dc.com . ### Press Contacts Mark Freeman Vantage Data Centers [email protected] +1-202-680-4243 Robin Bectel REQ for Vantage Data Centers [email protected] +1-202-936-6335 Ready to answer all your questions. GET STARTED Revoke Consent × Services Rack Ready Whitespace Build-to-Suit Other Services Features Power Cooling Security and Compliance Connectivity Room Design Amenities Sustainability Safety Operational Excellence Locations North America Ashburn I, VA, United States Ashburn II, VA, United States Ashburn III, VA, United States Phoenix, AZ, United States Quincy, WA, United States Santa Clara I, CA, United States Santa Clara II, CA, United States Santa Clara III, CA, United States Montreal I, Canada Montreal II, Canada Montreal III, Canada Quebec City, Canada EMEA Berlin I, Germany Berlin II, Germany Frankfurt I, Germany Frankfurt II, Germany Dublin, Ireland Milan, Italy Warsaw, Poland Johannesburg I, South Africa Johannesburg II, South Africa Zurich I, Switzerland Zurich II, Switzerland Cardiff, United Kingdom London I, United Kingdom London II, United Kingdom APAC Cyberjaya I, Malaysia Cyberjaya II, Malaysia Fo Tan, Hong Kong Kwai Chung, Hong Kong Melbourne, Australia On Lok, Hong Kong Osaka, Japan Taipei, Taiwan All Locations Company Leadership News & Events Careers Contact Us Resources Videos White Papers Data Sheets Reports & Brochures Blog Careers Login English French Get Started