AWS data center coming to Hobart, Indiana - DCD Home News The Data Center Construction Channel AWS data center coming to Hobart, Indiana Project already encountering opposition November 26, 2025 By Jason Ma Have your say An Amazon Web Services (AWS) data center is coming to Hobart, Indiana. The hyperscaler announced on Monday that it would invest $15 billion in Northern Indiana to build a 2.4GW data center campus in the region. – Google Maps WSBT 22 has since confirmed that the facilities will be located at 61st and Colorado street in the city of Hobart, which is located in Indiana’s southwestern tip. Hobart Mayor Josh Huddlestun sent a statement to WSBT 22, saying that the “development [would] immediately bring in tens of millions in revenue to our city.” He added that Amazon would cover the full cost of the infrastructure needed for the project. Under a new framework, Amazon will pay fees to use existing power lines and cover the costs for any new power plants, power lines, or equipment needed to serve its new data centers. Local utility NIPSCO will provide the campus with electricity. The project has already stirred up opposition. Details of a rally against the new AWS project are being circulated on a public Facebook group titled "No Data Centers Hobart Indiana." The arrival of other data center projects in the area prompted the formation of this group in September, as well as the creation of an anti-data center petition in early October. Amazon announced last year that it would invest $11bn into St. Joseph County, located in Indiana’s northeastern tip. Meta , US Signals , DataBank , Netrality , and Digital Crossroads all have a presence in Indiana, with a host of developers looking to develop new campuses across the state. Microsoft and Google have both announced data center builds in Indiana, in Mishawaka and Fort Wayne, respectively. More in North America North America data center report: Year-end 2025 15 Jan 2026 Meta buys land adjacent to Los Lunas campus in New Mexico, possible expansion - report Episode The big capacity battle - State-level incentives vs local pushback More in Construction & Site Selection DCD Intelligence: US construction supply chain 18 Feb 2026 Terranova launches in Mexico with its first data center campus Episode Is rapid deployment stifling design innovation? Tags 61st and Colorado Street AWS Hobart Indiana NIPSCO US hyperscale Comments