$1B hyperscale data center could break ground in city of Hamilton in 2026 Skip to main content. Featured News Articles $1B hyperscale data center could break ground in city of Hamilton in 2026 8 Sep 2025 News A data center project in Hamilton, OH could surpass $1 billion in total investment could begin construction next year. Logistix Property Group, a Cincinnati-based land development company, is working on bringing the 320,000-square-foot Hamilton Innovation Center to 29.2 acres of undeveloped land, owned by the city of Hamilton, at 1380 University Boulevard. The project was originally envisioned as an 80-megawatt data center, which would fall at the higher end of mid-size data centers nationally. The developer, Doug Swain, founder and president of Logistix, is now targeting a facility powered by more than 200 megawatts, he told the Business Courier. That would place it firmly in the category of large hyperscale data centers. It would be among the largest in Ohio. Typically, data centers create about one job per megawatt, or slightly less, according to Swain. On that basis, he conjectured the Hamilton Innovation Center would easily bring more than 100 high-paying jobs to the city. Read the Full Article Here. More Topics Butler County Finance Authority adds New Funds to Catalyze Development, Economic Growth Aug 28 2025 BCFA in the news! Check out this article from the Cincinnati Business Courier:Butler County’s port authority has a new way to raise and deploy money for real estate projects and business expansions.The Butler County Finance Authority, a port authority under Ohio law, announced Aug. 25 that its new affiliate, the... Continue Reading Butler County Manufacturer announces $1M campus expansion, adding 20 jobs Aug 27 2025 A Butler County manufacturer has announced a more than $1 million local expansion that will add nearly two dozen new positions.Lemon Township-based Crane Consumables is adding 12,000 square feet to its existing 25,000-square-foot campus, located at 155 Wright Drive. The property has a Middletown address, but sits in Lemon Township... Continue Reading These 4 things propelled Liberty Center onto a Top 10 best retail experiences list Aug 21 2025 Calling Butler County’s Liberty Center ‘the social playground of the region,’ Chain Store Age magazine named the mixed-use development among its Top 10 retail center experiences in America for 2025.The Liberty Twp. development was rated eighth on the list, listed as “a walkable outdoor environment blending retail, dining, entertainment, wellness,... Continue Reading Add to report View report How do I use these tools?